Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Ethereum classic price declined further yesterday against the Bitcoin, but the 100 hourly SMA provided support on the downside.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Ethereum classic price after a minor downside move versus the Bitcoin towards 0.00153BTC found support.
There is a minor new bullish trend line formed on the hourly chart of ETC/BTC (data feed via Simplefx), which acted as support area.
The main support on the downside for the ETC was around the 100 hourly simple moving average.
Ethereum classic price declined further yesterday against the Bitcoin, but the 100 hourly SMA provided support on the downside.
Ethereum Classic price as forecasted yesterday moved down versus the Bitcoin, and almost tested the 0.00150BTC support area. There was a new low of 0.00153BTC where somehow the ETC buyers managed to defend the downside move. There were two important support areas, which prevented a downside move. First, a minor new bullish trend line formed on the hourly chart of ETC/BTC (data feed via Simplefx) acted as a buy zone.
Second and the most important one was the 100 hourly simple moving average. It acted as a barrier for sellers and helped the price in a recovery. The price is currently trading higher and testing the 23.6% Fib retracement level of the drop from the 0.00186BTC high to 0.00153BTC low. It looks like the price may continue to move higher, and any dips remain supported.
The next stop on the upside for the ETC buyers can be around the 50% Fib retracement level of the drop from the 0.00186BTC high to 0.00153BTC low. As long as the price is above the 100 hourly SMA and the trend line support, it may rise. A break below it might expose for yet another test of the last swing low of 0.00153BTC.
Hourly MACD – The MACD is about to change the slope from the bearish to bullish zone.
Hourly RSI – The RSI is placed well above the 50 level, which is a positive sign.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Aayush has spent over seven years as a financial markets contributor and observer. He specializes in market strategies and technical analysis, comes with an IT background. He possess strong technical analytical skills and is well known for his entertaining and informative analysis of the currency and commodities markets. He is a software engineer by profession, loves blogging and observing financial markets. View all posts by Aayush Jindal
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.