Bitcoin.com has been steadily expanding our resources to spread adoption and to tell the world the many benefits of a decentralized cryptocurrency. Now we’ve decided to kick it up a notch by adding a variety of new features to our portal. Bitcoin.com aims to be the go-to premier destination for all things Bitcoin.
Your health is very important, don't joke with it. Click here to stay up to date with health trends
Our dedicated Bitcoin portal covers a broad array of tools and materials for people to grasp the evolving cryptocurrency industry. We have created multiple sections of the site that keep people informed of the price per BTC, the latest news headlines, and a forum to discuss this emerging technology. Now to keep up with the pace of this ever-changing ecosystem we’ve launched our widgets service.
The new widget service allows anyone to embed informative Bitcoin.com widgets on their website. Our widgets are pretty cool and can be customized by size and color. The widgets include a price widget, price and graph, price and news, forum threads, and even a widget dedicated to our mining pool which displays our hash power.
Additionally, we’ve decided to ramp up our tools section which also offers a variety of useful Bitcoin-related applications. Tools include a price converter, paper wallet generator, faucet, and verifier to validate messages using the Bitcoin blockchain. We are pretty excited to introduce these new widgets and tools so our visitors have the best resources to navigate the Bitcoin landscape.
Last year an open source experiment called Bitcoinocracy was launched to create a transparent voting system. The project focuses on determining truth backed by monetary value and transparency. Bitcoin.com has just acquired Bitcoinocracy, and we have rebranded the project to Vote.bitcoin.com. Users simply sign a statement with a non-empty Bitcoin address and express their opinions.
For instance, a user can assert that they believe a certain development should take place within the Bitcoin code. After submitting, the user will see if the economy supports the statement, and the results are verifiable with blockchain signatures. With this feature, Vote.bitcoin.com offers a free and transparent voting mechanism to facilitate decentralized decision-making in the Bitcoin ecosystem.
“Despite the fact that the holders of over 100,000 BTC left cryptographically verifiable signatures to express their views at Bitcoinocracy, the project was in a dormant state until Roger Ver contacted me. I am happy that it will be actively developed and used to better serve the community, I am sure it is in good hands now,” said Bitcoinocracy founder Arsen Gasparyan.
The people who work for Bitcoin.com are very passionate about this growing landscape of technological innovation. Our team of news reporters, our store, and our Bitcoin.com website developers are very pleased with what we have created. Our primary intentions are to provide the best possible experience for cryptocurrency enthusiasts both new and old.
Bitcoin.com will continue to be a premier portal that encompasses the entire Bitcoin environment. Make sure you tell all your friends and family members where to go when it comes to Bitcoin resources, because we have them. And if there is something Bitcoin-related you think our website needs, let us know. We are always interested in feedback.
What do you think about Bitcoin.com’s new features? Let us know in the comments below.
The post Bitcoin.com Adds Widgets, Tools, and a Voting Platform appeared first on Bitcoin News.
This post was syndicated from Bitcoin News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.
Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask
Shane D. Cook (@MadhuriBlaylock) on AIDS, TB, Malaria: ‘Antibiotic resistance challenges treatment of diseases,’ says NGO
Publishers who have complaints, change of mind or who want to be excluded from the aggregation, please email: nigeriatodaynow@gmail.com and we will act as soon as possible