With Halloween being right around the corner, the time has come to hand out candy to kids ringing your doorbell. In this day and age of “social justice”, however, handing out candy may not be the best course of action. Some people are even considering giving money, either in cash or by using Bitcoin. The latter option would be kind of interesting to see, although presently there is no good medium to do so.
There is a lot more to Halloween than scary pumpkins, lots of candy, and scary movies. It is also a time for getting together with family, friends, and neighbors–a natural time for people around the world to share knowledge and explore new possibilities.
Unfortunately, consumerism has turned Halloween into a sugar overdose fest for children of all ages. Adults buy tons of candy and hand it out to costumed passer-bys. Not that there’s anything wrong with that, but some people would like to do things a bit differently. Handing out money or any other form of value seems to have become an emerging trend.
In fact, the US National Financial Educators Council is all for handing out cash rather than candy this year. Whether or not this improves upon the existing tradition of Halloween remains a debatable topic. There is also the question of how those struggling economically are expected to participate in this campaign, as times are already tough enough.
This strange new concept holds some merit, though, as handing out money makes some sense. Then again, it will also invite criminals to rob kids on their way home, as these trick-or-treaters  could possibly end up carrying significant amounts of money. Sending an adult with them during the Halloween rounds is not a favorable solution either, although it could very well become a necessity.
At the same time, this project is an excellent way to promote financial education in the US and other countries that embrace a similar model. Financial literacy has never been as low as it is today, a situation that will need to change. Teaching the basics about money should be a top priority, yet for some reason, it is not.
Bitcoin has a role to play in this scenario as well, although it requires a lot of work to convey the message. Moreover, there is no handy medium to distribute Bitcoin on a large scale other than paper wallets–not the most secure medium in the hands of children. Perhaps, though, someone will come up with a way to use Bitcoin in an educational manner during Halloween.
If you liked this article, follow us on Twitter @themerklenews and make sure to subscribe to our newsletter to receive the latest bitcoin, cryptocurrency, and technology news.
JP Buntinx is a 30-year old FinTech and Bitcoin enthusiast living in Belgium. His passion for finance and technology made him one of the world's leading freelance Bitcoin writers, and he is working to achieve the same level of respect in the FinTech sector.
Incent To Offer Its ICO Technology To Other Organizations Focusing On Loyalty Rewards November 25, 2016
Developing Nations Show A Great Appetite For Payment Card Acceptance November 25, 2016