Investorideas.com - Bitcoin and Blockchain Investing Conference CoinAgenda 2016; Apptrade Talks about Creating the 'stock market of apps'
Bitcoin and Blockchain Investing Conference CoinAgenda 2016; Apptrade Talks about Creating the 'stock market of apps'
  Point Roberts, WA and Delta, BC - November 7, 2016 (Investorideas.com newswire) Investorideas.com, a global news source and investor resource attends the recently held bitcoin and blockchain investing conference, CoinAgenda in Las Vegas
CoinAgenda is a conference for both mainstream investors new to bitcoin and blockchain investments, and experienced investors in both digital assets and blockchain companies.
This track session features a pitch from Apptrade. Apptrade is making the 'stock market of apps', complete with regulatory tools and compliance mechanisms. OpenLedger is an ICO crowdfunding ecosystem striving to bridge the gap between innovative blockchain based startups and mainstream investors.
Sectors we cover in include mining, energy, renewable energy, water stocks, food and beverage (including organic and LOHAS, wine), defense and security, biotech, technology and mobile. We have also expanded our global coverage to include Latin American stocks, the Middle East, sports and entertainment.
Disclaimer/Disclosure: Investorideas.com is a digital publisher of third party sourced news, articles and equity research as well as creates original content, including video, interviews and articles. Original content created by investorideas is protected by copyright laws other than syndication rights. Our site does not make recommendations for purchases or sale of stocks, services or products. Nothing on our sites should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell products or securities. All investment involves risk and possible loss of investment. This site is currently compensated for news publication and distribution, social media and marketing, content creation and more. Contact each company directly regarding content and press release questions. Disclosure is posted for each compensated news release, content published /created if required but otherwise the news was not compensated for and was published for the sole interest of our readers and followers. More disclaimer info: http://www.investorideas.com/About/Disclaimer.asp.
Additional info regarding BC Residents and global Investors: Effective September 15 2008 - all BC investors should review all OTC and Pink sheet listed companies for adherence in new disclosure filings and filing appropriate documents with Sedar. Read for more info: http://www.bcsc.bc.ca/release.aspx?id=6894.  Global investors must adhere to regulations of each country.
login | logout | about us | services | contact | disclaimer / disclosure |