Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this morning.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
It is now Tuesday morning, and once again, we have had an excellent night’s worth of trading in the bitcoin price. Things initially looked a little flat as we headed into the late US session; but after a bit of Asian volume mixed into the equation, price broke out to the upside, and we saw that the bitcoin price hit its highest level in months, trading just shy of 740 and correcting only a few dollars post-highs. This bodes well for today’s session, and we are looking forward to getting in and out of the markets, according to our intraday strategy as volatility continues to dominate.
So, with this said, and as we head into today’s session, here is a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price, with an analysis of our key levels, and a discussion of where we are looking to get in and out of the markets if price gives us an opportunity to do so.
As ever, take a look at the chart below to get an idea of what is on. It is a five-minute candlestick chart, and it has the last 12 hours or so worth of action displayed with our key levels overlaid.
As the chart shows, the levels in focus for today’s morning session are support to the downside at 729, and resistance to the upside at 739. With about $10 worth of range to go at, intrarange is an option today. Looking at breakout, if price breaks above resistance, we will enter long towards an immediate upside target of 747. Conversely, a close below support will signal short towards 720. A stop loss just the other side of the entry in both instances will ensure that we are taken out the trade in the event of a bias reversal.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.