The price of bitcoin rose sharply this week, as the election of Donald Trump to US President drove investors into the safety of cryptocurrency and other risk-off bets.
The BTC/USD exchange rate was down 0.8% at $715.27 Thursday morning at 7:44 am ET. The pair traded at an intraday high of $722.45.
Bitcoin spiked toward $740 Wednesday night after Republican candidate Donald Trump secured the presidential bid. For the week, bitcoin’s value is up more than 4.5%.
The surprise election result also drove massive gains in precious metals, as investors sought refuge from an initial plunge in global equities. As of Thursday, the global financial markets had recovered from the post-election tumult, but underlying risks to the outlook remain.
The US dollar was also benefiting from post-election buy-in Thursday. The greenback rose half a percent against a basket of other major currencies, as investors speculated about Trump’s economic and fiscal policies.
Risk-off sentiment is likely to add to bitcoin’s growing appeal. The digital currency is already benefiting form improving fundamentals and progress on its technology. According to analysts, bitcoin’s post-election bump adds to the view the cryptocurrency is becoming a bigger safe haven play.
After a volatile summer, bitcoin appears to have regained momentum. Prior to the election, the cryptocurrency enjoyed strong buy-in from Chinese investors looking to diversify away from volatile yuan-denominated assets. China has quickly become the most important market for bitcoin. Exchanges in the People’s Republic have accounted for roughly 98% of total transaction volumes over the past month.
EconomicCalendar.com provides the latest economic news and financial events that move the market.
Sam Bourgi is a financial market analyst for economiccalendar.com. He has more than six years of progressive experience in economic and financial analysis, research consulting and sectoral analysis. As a published author in government, peer-reviewed, online and industry sources, he has developed a fundamental approach to the financial markets with a broad focus on stock indices, commodities and the technology sector. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Windsor and Master’s degree from McMaster University.
Trading forex, equities, CFDs, or other assets carries financial risk. You may lose your initial deposit or more. The information on this website is provided for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as financial advice. Trading is risky. Always consult with an independent financial adviser to give you trading advice tailored to your individual circumstances. View the Full Disclaimer Here