Visa has announced new details about a forthcoming business-to-business payments service developed in partnership with blockchain startup Chain.
Dubbed Visa B2B Connect, the near real-time settlement platform is aimed at providing a more secure, transparent mechanism for businesses making payments via Visa’s netowrk.
That the two firms would co-develop a platform for payments is perhaps unsurprising given their existing relationship and the fact that Visa was took part in Chain’s $30m funding round, announced last September. The credit card giant has made other blockchain tests related to payments public in the past year.
Jim McCarthy, Visa’s executive vice president for innovation and strategic partnerships, said in a statement:
"The time has never been better for the global business community to take advantage of new payment technologies and improve some of the most fundamental processes needed to run their businesses. We are developing our new solution to give our financial institution partners an efficient, transparent way for payments to be made across the world."
Visa didn’t provide an exact launch date for the new service, describing today’s move as a "preview". However, the company said that it will look to begin piloting the service in 2017.
Disclosure: CoinDesk is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which has an ownership stake in Chain. 
Chain is officially open-sourcing its blockchain platform, Chain Protocol, a move its CEO says represents the culmination of years of work.
Azteco owner Akin Fernandez explains why he believes a recent presentation at the US Federal Reserve did not properly represent the technology.
Blockchain startup Chain is today releasing a new permissioned protocol built in collaboration with 10 financial and telecom firms.
Blockchain startup Chain has inked a new deal with Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (MUFG).
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact