Bitcoin is steadily gaining popularity in many parts of the globe, particularly in India. And the government’s recent decision to demonetize two currency notes is helping speed up the popular digital currency’s traction in the country.
To crack down on corruption, fake currency notes and tax evaders, the Indian government made a historic move last week and banned currency notes of 500 and 1,000 denomination. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the move in a “shock and wave” manner so black market savers didn’t have enough time to do something about it, local media outlets reported.
The announcement has, of course, resulted in people standing in line at banks to exchange or deposit the scrapped rupee bills—a staple in ATMs in the country. And as the ATMs start running out of money, it could pave the way for an increase in demand for bitcoin in India.
In an interview with the EconoTimes, Sathvik Vishwanath, CEO of bitcoin company Unocoin, said he believes the ban could boost bitcoin adoption in the country.
“I believe the adoption rate and bitcoin trading in India will dramatically increase. This will not happen overnight or within a week, as Indians are currently recovering from the shock of the discontinuation of the 500 and 1000 rupee notes. Once everything is settled, I am predicting an upward trend starting from next week,” Vishwanath said, according to the news outlet.
Zebpay bitcoin exchange, meanwhile, sees about 50,000 new users per month. Zebpay co-founder Sandeep Geonka told Investopedia: “More people have started looking at bitcoins and interest has surged. We are working hard so that bitcoins and this technology can help fulfill the government’s dream.”
The Reserve Bank of India has been looking at possible solutions to reduce the use of paper currency in the country. In June, the bank said it was forming a committee that will study the use of blockchain for “financial transactions where the entire data systems move to some more levels.”
The price of bitcoin is hovering around $711 early Wednesday morning, with a trade volume of $6.04 million.
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
Chinese online sports lottery operator 500.com has taken a controlling stake in a social poker business in an attempt to diversify its currently non-existent revenue stream.
On Friday, 500.com announced that it had taken a 51% stake in Qufan Internet Technology Inc. and Shenzhen Qufan Internet Technology Co. Ltd, which collectively operate a mobile social poker platform.
500.com says the transaction, which will cost RMB 110.5m (US $16m), is subject to certain unspecified conditions. The company didn’t offer any guidance for what type of boost this acquisition might provide to 500.com’s bottom line.
The Nasdaq-listed 500.com is desperate to show investors some capacity to generate revenue, having now gone six straight quarters without a single penny from online lottery operations following Beijing’s March 2015 decision to ‘temporarily’ suspend online sales after uncovering widespread fraud by provincial lottery administrators.
Investors will likely be hoping 500.com’s latest acquisition proves more permanent that its purchase last December of Zhejiang Shangmeng Technology Limited Company, which operates the Sumpay.cn online payment processor. 500.com sold the company in May, and while it realized a tidy profit on the quick turnaround, it didn’t inspire investor confidence in 500.com’s long-term prospects.
Beijing has been typically cryptic regarding when the 20-months-and-counting ‘temporary’ online suspension might be lifted. In May, five government ministries issued a joint notice detailing steps that needed to be taken in order to ensure future online activity would be property scrutinized, but the government has yet to take any demonstrable public action toward achieving those aims.
500.com isn’t alone in eyeing social gaming as a diversification lifeline. Casino and slots operator Entertainment Gaming Asia has been promising to unveil its new ‘Pan-Asian’ social casino platform since March. Earlier this month, the company reported that it was still “testing the platform in certain markets to assess its potential as a provider to long-term earnings.’
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
Demonetizing currency in India will cause a surge in this legal online gaming
The CalvinAyre.com media group is based in Antigua in the West Indies with teams in London, Manila and Vancouver covering the global gambling industry.
Along with ensuring fair coverage of the gambling industry we highlight the great work of the Calvin Ayre Foundation.