Leading bitcoin payments company BitPay today announced the first bitcoin wallet with Intel hardware security integration. This new solution will allow Copay users to rest assured that their data is better protected even if their application code or associated computer is compromised. The Intel® Software Guard Extensions integration offers hardware-level protection for the bitcoin wallet’s private key generation, transaction signing and private keys themselves.
BitPay has integrated its bitcoin wallet Copay with the Intel® Software Guard Extensions and Intel® Identity Protection Technology (Intel® IPT) with protected transaction display (PTD) security technologies. These technologies allow users to execute an application's most security-sensitive operations using the new 7th Generation Intel® Core™ processors.
“Providing user-friendly financial security is one of bitcoin's biggest opportunities, and Intel's silicon-based security helps us move bitcoin closer to the mainstream,” said Stephen Pair, CEO at BitPay. “We look forward to releasing this to Copay users in the coming months.”
Bitcoin users will now gain a higher level of security with the Intel® Software Guard Extensions integration, making Copay an even safer true bitcoin wallet alternative to bitcoin account services, which are vulnerable to security breaches. Businesses which rely on Copay to receive and send high volumes of bitcoin payments will also find this integration to be a welcome security tool.
“The decentralized trust which blockchain technology enables has the potential to transform interactions over the Internet, starting with bitcoin. With blockchain technology and our security and computing assets, Intel hopes to bring decentralized trust to a wide array of asset exchanges over the Internet,” said Rick Echevarria, vice president of Software and Services Group, and General Manager of the Platforms Security Division at Intel.
BitPay expects to announce general availability of the new integration soon. The companies will be showcasing a demo of the solution this week at Money20/20 in Las Vegas.
The first and most experienced company in bitcoin payments, BitPay builds powerful tools for spending, accepting, and building with bitcoin.
Intel, Intel® Software Guard Extensions and Intel® Identity Protection Technology (Intel® IPT) with protected transaction display (PTD) are registered trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
The most addictive game of the year! Play with 14 million Players now!
Lindsey Vonn Reveals ‘Dark Days’ Dating Tiger Woods — New Secrets Inside Their Split
VIDEO: DEAR EVAN HANSEN's Ben Platt Performs 'Waving Through a Window' on 'Late Night'
UPDATE: Elton John Publicist Issues Strong Denial; Singer Will NOT Perform at Trump Inauguration
Original Star Jason Alexander Set for Q&A at MERRILY WE ROLL ALONG Documentary Screening in L.A.
Original Star Jason Alexander Set for Q&A at MERRILY WE ROLL ALONG Documentary Screening in L.A. Tonight
New Lisa Loeb Song from 'If You Give a Mouse a Cookie' Holiday Now on Amazon
Sprint CFO Tarek Robbiati to Speak at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Leveraged Finance Conference on November 30
TV/MOVIES - 's 'Some Like it Pop' Counts Down Top-10 Showtunes of All-Time
CLASSICAL - STAGE TUBE: Italian Pianist Stefano Bollani Performs HALLELUJAH at TSO Performance
OPERA - Photo Flash: First Look at Opera Collective's THE PROPOSAL at The Actors' Chapel This Week
DANCE - Review: DORRANCE DANCE's THE BLUES PROJECT Invokes the Healing Powers of the Community
BROADWAY - Angela Lansbury Doesn't Know Why BEAUTY AND THE BEAST is Being Remade