Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Another day done in our bitcoin price trading operations, and it’s been a pretty interesting one. This morning we noted that we hadn’t seen too much volatility early week, and that in the absence of this volatility, getting in and out of the markets has been a little tough. We also noted, however, that this isn’t necessarily a bad thing. It’s a bit frustrating (things are far more exciting when we’re chasing a profit target) but it means we aren’t looking at any losses, and pretty much every time we run through a period of down time we get more than enough opportunity to get back in to the markets shortly thereafter.
Well, the European session today has started to pick up, and we’ve managed to proved the above theory once again.
We got in long on some solid upside action, and in doing so, drew a decent profit from the market on the volatility served up.
Now, as we head into the late session, tonight, let’s see if we get more of the same, and more importantly, if we can take advantage of it and pull more profit out of the market.
Take a look at the chart below to get an idea of what’s on.
As the chart shows, the range in focus for this late evening session is defined by in term support to the downside at 718 flat, and in term resistance to the upside at 722 flat. This is a super tight range, so we’re definitely just going after breakout scalp trades for the time being.
Specifically, if we see price break through in term resistance to the upside, we will get in long towards an immediate upside target of 726. Conversely, a close below support will put us short towards 713. Stops just the other side of entry (around two dollars either side) will ensure we are taken out of the trade in the event of a bias reversal.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.