Moscow to Host Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference This Week | Online Casino Reports
The latest conference on the revolutionary crypto currency Bitcoin will be held in Moscow on November 10.
On November 10, Moscow will be the host of the biggest Bitcoin and Blockchain conference to date in Russia. This conference will delve into the world of how Bitcoin and Blockchain are used, and can be used for iGaming, which is reason enough to attend. With growing Blockchain-based services and online casinos accepting Bitcoin as the primary method of payment, this conference promises to be informative and an excellent platform for networking. 
Smile-Expo are operating this conference and they have promised an exciting schedule full of keynote speakers, industry professionals and more. These technologies are no longer only for IT pros, rather it is making its way into the lives of casino players, operators, business-people and end-users. This year's conference will be focused on two main halls, one for financiers and the other for industry entrepreneurs. 
For those in the financial fields, the portion of the conference relevant will be how to implement blockchain technology in banking, the proposed creation of a Russian blockchain consortium and a governmental bill on crypto-currency regulation. This side of the conference will be excellent for those just getting started and those with a solid knowledge base surrounding the tech.
For the entrepreneurs out there, this portion of the conference will focus on various aspects of blockchain in telecommunications, legal, insurance, asset management and general information. 
There will be a number of professionals that will lead lectures and discussions about development of financial and technical services, finance, investment and other experts with deep knowledge of the crypto-currency and the technology surrounding it. 
In addition, the organizers have announced that there will be much participation from major payment services, not based in Russia. This will definitely mean that attendees will be getting the most professional and relevant information from many of the leaders in various industries. 
Tickets are available and this conference would be a good one to attend if you plan on being in Moscow on November 10.