Keeping One Eye On MGT's Bitcoin Operations - MGT Capital Investments Inc (NYSEMKT:MGT) | Seeking Alpha
We're not interested in MGT as an investment right now, given the regulatory scrutiny.
However, we are interested in what the company's plans are for mining Bitcoin.
We will keep one eye on MGT going forward. We explain why Bitcoin could be a good business avenue for the company; only if they can escape regulatory scrutiny first.
The bitcoin angle on MGT (NYSEMKT:MGT) is certainly an interesting one. We wanted to write about why this angle has us curiously watching a company that we don't believe is anywhere near investable at its current state. But we're watching.
MGT is a company that we have been watching over the last few months. We have tried to maintain a neutral stance on the company and provide balanced looks as to some of the ongoing saga surrounding the company. Most recently, we tried to help investors understand what the company's new SEC subpoena could mean and what NYSE could have been thinking when they prevented the company from issuing the shares necessary for MGT to make a planned acquisition.
Today, we wanted to write about why we are keeping one eye on MGT's bitcoin mining operations. While we are not advocating for a position in the company, especially now that it has regulatory scrutiny on it, the mining of bitcoin is the first business related concept to come out of the company that has intrigued us in the slightest bit.
Yesterday, the company released a press release stating that it has mined somewhere between $50,000 and $60,000 worth of bitcoin in a month. The company stated,
After the first full month of operations, the Company is pleased to have delivered on the metrics it outlined on September 13, 2016. Specifically, the Company has mined over 90 Bitcoins, presently valued at approximately $611 each. Also, MGT has begun to implement Phase Two of its Bitcoin mining operations scheduled to expand its processing power to more than five PetaHash by the end of the fourth quarter of 2016.
The Company has successfully executed on its strategy to maximize profits from mining operations by capitalizing on low cost hydroelectricity and using proprietary software to optimize and manage the performance of its machines. In addition, MGT is utilizing state-of-the-art 16 nanometer ASIC chips and highly efficient power supplies, further reducing the power requirements of mining operations.
"I wish to thank our shareholders for the positive feedback we have received since completing the first phase of our Bitcoin project. Our machines have been working flawlessly at full potential with a very high level of efficiency. We are excited and ready for the expansion of this activity as we implement the second planned phase," stated Robert Collazo, Director of Operations for MGT's Bitcoin mining operations.
MGT Capital Investments: That's The Sound Of Stock Crashing, That's The Sound Of Dreams Shattering