Donald J. Trump Appoints Bitcoin Investor Peter Thiel to Presidential Transition Team - CryptoCoinsNews
A page in the book of history has turned, and there is an opening to think about some of our problems from a new perspective,” the gay Bitcoin enthusiast, Peter Thiel, who will serve on Donald J. Trump’s presidential transition team, told the New York Times after the election. “I’ll try to help the president in any way I can.”
Since Donald J. Trump assumed the role of president-elect in last Tuesday’s U.S. election, much scrutiny has been put on his statements and team as the transition begins between President Obama and Mr. Trump.
President-elect Trump appointed a litany of Republican Party sweethearts such as New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, Former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Newt Gingrich, and Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani.
Trump also announced the billionaire technologist Thiel would join the Presidential Transition Team Executive Committee, alongside his all three of his children.
“Together this outstanding group of advisors, led by Vice President-elect Mike Pence, will build on the initial work done under the leadership of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie to help prepare a transformative government ready to lead from day one,” stated President-elect Donald J. Trump. “The mission of our team will be clear: put together the most highly qualified group of successful leaders who will be able to implement our change agenda in Washington. Together, we will begin the urgent task of rebuilding this nation – specifically jobs, security and opportunity. This team is going to get to work immediately to Make America Great Again.”
That PayPal co-founder, Bilderberg attendee, Facebook board member, Peter Thiel, joined Trump’s transition team means Thiel could help to vet presidential appointments and decide which campaign promises can evolve into policies.
Thiel has spoken  on behalf of the Republican National Convention and donated $1.25 million to his campaign. Thiel has trumpeted getting outsiders into Washington’s broken system.
“The big things he’s right about amount to a much-needed dose of humility in our politics,” Thiel said at a talk to the National Press Club a week before the election. “We’re voting for Trump because we’ve judged the leadership of our country to have failed.”
Thiel has expressed desire for government to focus less on sexuality and gender issues, and more on making the government efficient to complete infrastructure projects.
According to anonymous sources, Thiel, who leads a fun that invested in BitPay, has not outright rejected the notion of serving in Trump’s administration.
“Thiel’s disruptive nature may come in handy at helping Trump navigate tech issues, but the question is whether he will have all of tech’s interests, the Bay Area’s interests, at heart when giving his advice,” said an anonymous Democratic tech industry lobbyist.
Posted in: News, World Politics Tagged in: bitcoin, Donald J Trump, peter thiel
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.