Entrepreneur Peter Thiel has donated money in support of Donald Trump despite major Silicon Valley leaders supporting Hillary Clinton. Time
SAN FRANCISCO - The candidacy of Donald Trump continues to create rifts in Silicon Valley.
The catalyst this time was word that libertarian tech investor Peter Thiel had funneled $1.25 million to the Republican presidential candidate's campaign.
That move drew a mixed reaction from Thiel's friend Sam Altman who is president of influential tech incubator Y Combinator — Thiel is a partner in Y Combinator — which in turn drew a rebuke from tech employment advocate Ellen Pao.
"Thiel is a high profile supporter of Trump, I disagree with this," Altman tweeted Sunday, after The New York Times reported on Thiel's Trump donation. In other tweets, Altman called Trump "an acceptable threat to America."
That said, Altman made it clear was not not going to distance himself personally or professionally from Thiel: "YC is not going to fire someone for supporting a major party nominee."
That stance drew a swift reaction from Pao, co-founder of Project Include, whose aim is to improve diversity in the tech world.
Pao, who a few years ago unsuccessfully sued venture capital giant Kleiner Perkins Caulfied & Byers for gender discrimination, wrote in a blog post on Medium Monday that Project Include would be ending its relationship with Y Combinator due to the fact that it did not cut ties with Thiel.
"Thiel’s actions are in direct conflict with our values at Project Include," she wrote. "Because of his continued connection to YC, we are compelled to break off our relationship with YC. We hope this situation changes, and that we are both willing to move forward together in the future. Today it is clear to us that our values are not aligned."
Thiel made his billions by co-founding PayPal. At this summer's Republican National Convention, Thiel was the lone tech billionaire to take the podium, where he spoke about being conservative and homosexual.
Thiel was in the news earlier this year when he came forward as the main financial backer of Hulk Hogan in the wrestler's lawsuit against Gawker Media, which had posted a video of Hogan having sex. Hogan's successful suit against Gawker —which had earlier outed Thiel as gay — bankrupted the media company.
One of Thiel's companies, secretive data-analytics outfit Palantir Technologies, is being sued by the Labor Department, which is charging that it discriminates against Asians. Palantir has denied the accusation.
Walk on the moon, ride on the tallest roller coaster in VRtually There