The European Central Bank (ECB) has urged its members to impose tighter controls on the activities of companies that exchange virtual currencies or custody them for their clients.
The comments come as the European Union moves toward extending the economic bloc's anti-money laundering statutes to cover digital currency activities. At the same time, the ECB has been conducting its own investigations of both digital currencies like bitcoin as well as its underlying technology.
Perhaps most notable in the ECB’s legal opinion, published earlier this week, is its assertion that the broader adoption of digital currencies "could in principle affect the central banks’ control over the supply of money" and impact its role in seeking price stability.
"Thus, while it is appropriate for the Union legislative bodies, consistent with the FATF’s recommendations, to regulate virtual currencies from the anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing perspectives, they should not seek in this particular context to promote a wider use of virtual currencies."
The opinion paper isn't the first instance in which the ECB has sought to question the impact of digital currencies. Last year, the central bank described them as "inherently unstable", while at the same time making the argument that the technology could have an impact on future monetary policymaking.
"Although [virtual currency system] units are not denominated in euro, they do have the potential to have an impact on monetary policy and price stability, financial stability and the smooth operation of payment systems in the euro area," the ECB said at the time.
Ledger Labs' Josh Stark seeks to provide a high-level framework for understanding the potential of nascent blockchain governance applications.
The IRS is seeking user records from Coinbase as part of a taxpayer investigation.
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
CoinDesk spotlights ongoing efforts inside the top securities regulator in the US to better understand – and adapt to – advances in blockchain…
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact