Coinbase has received a surprise summons from the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS), with the agency demanding transaction records of all US users since 2013.
Your health is very important, don't joke with it. Click here to stay up to date with health trends
The sudden focus on Coinbase, considered to be stringently compliant with regulatory requirements, comes as part of a crackdown on suspected US-resident tax evaders.
In a document filing, the IRS issued a so-called ‘John Doe’ summons to Coinbase to seek out users who have “failed or may have failed to comply with provisions of the internal revenue laws.”
“[T]he IRS has commenced an investigation to determine the correct federal income tax liabilities, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015, of United States persons who conducted transactions in a convertible virtual currency,” the filing confirms.
Coinbase was quick to confirm the investigation, but appeared equally taken aback by the IRS’ stance.
“Although Coinbase’s general practice is to cooperate with law enforcement, we are very concerned with the indiscriminate breadth of the government’s request,” the company told Bitcoin.com in emailed comments.
Responding to a Reddit thread on the issue, Coinbase stated it would “work to protect privacy” as a priority.
“We take user privacy very seriously and will work to protect the privacy of our users in broad information requests,” it added. “We are taking a very careful look at this petition and the scope of the government’s authority as it relates to this request.”
The timing of the filing is particularly conspicuous. Just last week, the IRS was publicly criticized in a Treasury audit for failing to identify the potential for tax fraud by virtual currency users.
The audit also found the agency had done nothing to advise the public on tax compliance while using virtual currencies, a duty the IRS inherited from the Bank Secrecy Act in 2013.
“The IRS agreed that additional guidance would be helpful; however, the IRS conveyed that guidance allocation decisions are based on available resources and other competing organizational and legislative priorities.
What do you think about the IRS move? Let us know in the comments section below!
Bitcoin.com believes in freedom of speech – and that’s what you’ll always find on our Forums. We don’t censor anyone, no matter how controversial your opinion and no matter what direction you support for bitcoin’s future. All the experts hang out there; you’re bound to get some good advice.
  The post IRS Demands Coinbase Records In Surprise Tax Probe appeared first on Bitcoin News.
This post was syndicated from Bitcoin News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.
Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask
The US government is expected to hit Facebook with a bill for between $3 billion and $5 billion in back taxes, the social network has disclosed. The post Facebook to challenge US bill for back taxes appeared first on Vanguard News.
House of Representatives on Tuesday approved October 2016 as the new take-off date for the Federal Capital Territory Internal Revenue Service (FCT IRS). Similarly, the House approved the immediate nullification of the appointment of the 14-member Board of FCT IRS. The resolution was passed following the adoption of the report of…
The US Internal Revenue Service needs to overhaul its strategy for bitcoin, an agency watchdog warned in a report published today. Source
Shane D. Cook (@MadhuriBlaylock) on AIDS, TB, Malaria: ‘Antibiotic resistance challenges treatment of diseases,’ says NGO
Publishers who have complaints, change of mind or who want to be excluded from the aggregation, please email: nigeriatodaynow@gmail.com and we will act as soon as possible