FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
Bitstamp, a European Union-based bitcoin marketplace, has partnered with Trezor, leading bitcoin hardware wallet, for improved bitcoin security and user experience.
According to the official release, with the collaboration, Bitstamp will now support withdrawals for funds straight to the user’s Trezor. Embedded Trezor accounts will allow users to withdraw newly acquired bitcoins to the safety of their Trezor device in just a few clicks.
The partnership will also allow users to deposit bitcoins from their Trezor to Bitstamp account without having to switch to myTrezor.com or any other wallet, or having to copy-paste bitcoin addresses. With the help of standard Trezor security, users can enter the PIN using shuffled PIN matrix and confirm the deposit with their Trezor.
“To celebrate the integration and as an additional perk for you, we are organizing a giveaway raffle, available to all active Bitstamp users. Every week, Bitstamp will pick one user that made at least one trade, at random, and we will gift her or him with a free Trezor,” the announcement stated.
Every Wednesday, there will be weekly draws and winners will be contacted by Bitstamp and SatoshiLabs and the first draw will be on October 26.
“With Bitstamp, users gain a convenient new way to transfer bitcoins directly from their Trezor wallet to an account,” it added.
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close below 14.01 targets 14.70 - EconoTimes
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
296m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
296m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
296m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
297m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
297m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
FxWirePro: AUD/NZD bulls in intermediated trend rebuild positive momentum, major trend drives in non-directional, upswings implied by interest rate
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more