The topic of how the nation's diplomatic institutions are preparing for digital changes came up during a recent appearance in Silicon Valley by US Secretary of State John Kerry, a former senator and US presidential candidate.
Speaking at the Virtuous Circle Conference on 10th October, Kerry was asked about the presence of a "digital officer" at embassy sites in foreign nations. Specifically, the moderator inquired whether an embassy officer "needs to be able to speak with fluency about bitcoin and dark web".
Kerry replied positively, prompting the moderator to ask if the State Department was moving to update its training regime with those technologies in mind.
"Yes. That's the curriculum we've put together. I mean, I haven't asked – there's a lot of uncertainty with bitcoin or whatever."
While the comments don't exactly provide stark clarity, it's no secret that agencies within the US government are considering blockchain initiatives.
For example, a project called the Blockchain Alliance is promoting education among government officials, and the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is now providing grants to blockchain projects.
What the State Department's training looks like, however, remains to be seen. The State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The Polish Parliament has held the country's first public consultation meeting devoted solely to digital currency and blockchain technology issues.
The United Arab Emirates city of Dubai has announced plans to move all of its government documents to a blockchain by 2020.
A US congressman has proposed that the country’s administration for veterans affairs use blockchain to track medical appointments.
In this op-ed, investor and author William Mougayar discusses why global governments should be – and increasingly are – embracing blockchain.
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact