Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
So the week has finally drawn to a close, and it’s been an exciting last day to be in the bitcoin price markets. Things have been pretty volatile, and we ended up getting in and out on a quick gap up (unfortunately, for a loss) and the same action occurred same the downside, although the downside entry didn’t materialize based on some well placed (lucky?) resistance placement.
We are about to head into the close of the US session, and we’ve got a little bit of room on either side of price to play with as far as our pre-established key levels are concerned, so let’s see what we can do with tonight’s action. Before we get going, take a look at what happened today on the chart below. It makes for a pretty interesting view!
So the chart shows price gapping up through resistance, and then pretty much reversing the instant the gap candle closed. We got in long on the gap up, of course, which turned out to be an ineffective entry as priced returned to trade back within our prespecified range very quickly. The spike then came to the downside, but we didn’t get in there because price never closed below support (there is a method to our madness!)
Anyway, looking at tonight’s session, we are holding support and resistance as they are, with support to the downside at 639 flat and resistance to the upside at 642. Again we are going at price with a breakout scalp approach only, so long on a break above resistance towards an immediate upside target of 647, and short on a break below support with a target of 632.
We need a stop loss on both positions, and two dollars just the other side of the entry on both counts works well for the sort of reward on offer.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.