Police in Dubai have reportedly arrested a man accused stealing bitcoins from several individuals.
Local sources report that three Dubai citizens were defrauded after connecting online with someone claiming to be a bitcoin buyer who wanted to purchase the digital currency at a premium.
According to Dubai police officials, those affected apparently let the suspect access their bitcoin wallets during the sale. Once inside, those accounts were emptied, with just over $100,000 in bitcoin being taken.
Dubai officials are said to have expressed concern about the nature of the crime. Salim bin Salmin, deputy director of the Dubai Police’s Cybercrimes Department, told regional news service 7DaysUAE.
“It’s hard to trace the money. There is no legal framework for it and UAE residents are not familiar with it or how to use it for trading.”
The suspect, who is facing fraud charges following his arrest, was reportedly arrested after police used Instagram to set up a sting operation. Officials used the social media app to create the persona of a wealthy investor looking to buy bitcoins.
”We created an account for a young man, posted pictures of him looking wealthy and put up a message that he was looking to sell 1,000 bitcoins,” Dubai Police director Khamis Mattar Al Muzaina told the publication.
After the suspect was arrested, police determined that the funds had been spent on a variety of luxury goods as well as housing costs in Dubai.
Dubai’s government is laying the groundwork for developing legislation around bitcoin and digital currencies.
Major banks in Dubai and India have embarked on a series of blockchain trials with the help of Infosys.
The FBI is investigating a report filed by an anonymous Bitfinex user alleging that funds were stolen from their account.
The United Arab Emirates city of Dubai has announced plans to move all of its government documents to a blockchain by 2020.
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact