ince yesterday’s column Bitcoin has shown a convincing penetration past the 3rd arc on the daily chart suggesting a test of the 2nd arc of the pair is likely coming.  When/if that resistance is broken, I suspect we will see a rapid advance.  (But let’s not get ahead of ourselves just yet.)
As you can see, the blue vertical line, which represents 180 degrees from the start of the rally 6 months ago, came one day after the spike low.  I now believe that this spike low was likely the 180 degree low I was expecting (though it did not go as deep as I expected).
  The 8-hour chart shows a similar picture.  The 3rd arc pair is convincingly broken, AND we have a close above the 1×1 (45 degrees) from the swing high.  Overall this is a bullish picture.  However I would caution that until we get a close ABOVE the 3rd arc pair, we can’t assume anything.  So, my advice is if you go long (which I would not argue with) don’t risk too much.  The market might still get mean and cruel.
We are FINALLY seeing what looks like an imminent close above the 4th arc pair, just as we pass the end of the square.  I didn’t anticipate it would take so long, but we may (perhaps) see a close above the arc pair as soon as this daily bar.  When/if we get a close above the top of the square and the 1×3 angle ($11 would do it), this asset will likely get exciting.  If you remember, yesterday we saw a chart that suggests Ethereum might out-perform Bitcoin, so be alert.
This close-up of ethereum’s daily chart illustrates that we are testing arc resistance.  Will we get a close above?  We will soon see.
Overall, it seems that we are rapidly approaching an exciting time for cryptocurrency traders.
  Remember:  The author is a trader who is subject to all manner of error in judgement.  Do your own research, and be prepared to take full responsibility for your own trades.
Posted in: Altcoin News, Bitcoin Analysis, Bitcoin Price News, News Tagged in: Bitcoin price
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.