Will Bitcoin Break $1,000 After Trump Win? - Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust ETF (Pending:COIN) | Seeking Alpha
Bitcoin is acting as a safe haven asset in reaction to the U.S. election result.
Because of the similarities it is interesting to look at analyst expectations for gold.
Analysts are generally very bullish on gold's prospects in case of a Trump election.
It makes sense, similar dynamics as those bullish for the metal, will apply to Bitcoin.
Donald Trump's win of the U.S. election seems to have an effect on the demand for bitcoin (COIN, OTCQB:BTCS). At the time of writing its 2.34% up which fits the narrative of Bitcoin as a safe-haven asset.
The price appreciation on this event isn't that spectacular. What's interesting is Bitcoin acts as a safe haven asset. Traditionally, precious metals and bonds have this role and they reacted appropriately. This adds to Bitcoin's validity in the eyes of the public. Crypto-enthusiast don't need further convincing but to others this may be an important moment.
One important group is that of asset managers. The pioneers among them have started to accumulate Bitcoin in special funds, family funds or as a diversifier in a more traditional fund.
Its attractive to have another option in the mix that doesn't just act like a diversifier but where there's great potential for appreciation as an ecosystem (for the lack of a better word) gets built around it.
In many ways Bitcoin is completely different from gold but in other ways it is very similar. There's a limited supply of them, you can carry around a lot of value easily which adds to its mobility and its fairly hard for the government to take it away from you. Although the latter is somewhat dependent on how it is stored and accounted for.
Although Bitcoin has its own specific value drivers (like the interest of asset managers, which I addressed in an earlier article among many others) it makes sense it will also mimic gold in some ways. Because of the similarities, I think it is interesting to see what analysts are saying about gold instead of predicting Bitcoin movement in a vacuum. The WSJ wrote (emphasis mine):