niversity business school teams competing in the Kraken Case Study competition predicted two to one that a bitcoin-weighted portfolio will outperform one that is Ethereum-weighted, according to The Economist. The competition invited students to choose which blockchain technology is the better long-term buy.
The students were asked if they have a million dollars to invest in the two blockchain technologies and they cannot touch their investment for the next five years, how much of that sum do they invest in each, and why?
The students’ submissions are hosted on “The Economist’s Which MBA?” website. ‘Which MBA?’ is a division of The Economist Newspaper Group that offers online products serving prospective MBA students and business schools.
“October 31, 2016, marked the 8-year anniversary of the bitcoin whitepaper. Today, governments, banks, Fortune 500 technology companies and investors alike have recognized blockchain technology’s huge, positive and disruptive potential,” said Jesse Powell, founder and CEO of Kraken, a digital exchange.
Powell wondered if bitcoin’s first-mover advantage and entrenchment insulates it from its competitors. At the same time, Ethereum could offer a unique value proposition over bitcoin. Another question is: do both assets coexist, or is it a winner-take-all game?
Still another question is how an investor should evaluate each opportunity in terms of maximizing advantages and portfolio diversification.
In the competition, the teams evaluated each technology’s strengths and weaknesses, project governance, use cases, adoption, investor and developer sentiment, regulatory issues and historical performance.
“The complexity of this evaluation coupled with the tremendous upside potential for a correct bet is why we felt this was the perfect question for this challenge,” Powell said.
The competition will award $21,000 in prize money to the winning teams. The first-place team will win a $10,000 grand prize. Second place will win $5,000, and third place will receive $3,000. Kraken will select the top three teams.
There will also be a “People’s Choice” award of $3,000 for the team whose proposal receives the most votes from the public. The winners will be announced in December 2016.
Posted in: Bitcoin & Blockchain Investments, Bitcoin Analysis, Ethereum News, News Tagged in: Jesse Powell, kraken, The Economist
PreviousBitcoin Miner Bitfury Group Partners ‘Big 4’ Firm EY to Provide Blockchain Services08/11/2016
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.