Gold wasn't the only thing to go up in value after Trump pulled off his presidential upset. Virtual currencies like bitcoin also saw gains, reports TechCrunch. Markets hate uncertainty, so investors usually turn to assets they can barter with in times of upheaval. The cryptocurrency jumped from $709 to over $737 when it became apparent Trump was going to win. However, in the 24 hours since Trump's win, bitcoin has come down quite a bit from its Trump-upset high. It's now hovering around $715.
A formal request for a recount in battleground states may come from a somewhat unlikely source: Jill Stein.
The Green Party candidate announced plans to request recounts in a number of battleground states Wednesday, specifically Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Michigan. Some analysts have suggested that foreign hackers may have interfered with election results in those states, causing Trump to win, often by small margins.
Stein has indicated that she wants the recount to ensure that the election results in those states are in fact authentic, not because she feels she may have won in any of those states. She has also launched an online fundraising page in order to raise the millions needed to request the reviews.
Update Nov. 24: As of 2:30 pm on Thursday, the effort has raised just under $3.9 million, with a newly updated goal of $4.5 million. The fundraising page now estimates that attorney fees "are likely to be another $2-3 million, then there are the costs of the statewide recount observers in all three states," raising the total cost to "$6-7 million."  
The page also notes that while the campaign can pledge to request a recount, "we cannot guarantee a recount will happen in any of these states we are targeting, and that "if we raise more than what's needed, the surplus will also go toward election integrity efforts and to promote voting system reform." EP
Get the FastCoNews daily newsletter and never miss out on the most important, compelling and thought-provoking news in the worlds of business, tech, and innovation.
PEOTUS Donald Trump says Tim Cook called him. He recounted the call during an on-record session with New York Times reporters yesterday. Here's what The Donald said he said to Tim: 
. . . and I said, 'Tim, you know, one of the things that will be a real achievement for me is when I get Apple to build a big plant in the United States, or many big plants in the United States, where instead of going to China, and going to Vietnam, and going to the places that you go to, you're making your product right here.' He said, 'I understand that.' I said: 'I think we'll create the incentives for you, and I think you're going to do it. We're going for a very large tax cut for corporations, which you'll be happy about.' But we're going for big tax cuts, we have to get rid of regulations, regulations are making it impossible. Whether you're liberal or conservative, I mean, I could sit down and show you regulations that anybody would agree are ridiculous. It's gotten to be a free-for-all. And companies can't, they can't even start up, they can't expand, they're choking.
I emailed Apple communications head Steve Dowling for confirmation and details of the call, but received no reply. A report last week said Apple indeed asked its Foxconn and Pegatron manufacturer partners to study the costs of moving manufacturing to the U.S. But some analysts say doing so could double the cost of producing an iPhone. MS
You probably heard a while back that the captain of the U.S. Navy's super-futuristic destroyer, the USS Zumwalt, is none other than James Kirk. True story. And when you think of high-tech Navy ships, you probably think of them prowling the world's oceans, humming along at peak efficiency and showing everyone how it's done.
You probably don't think of them breaking down in the Panama Canal, but this is exactly what the Zumwalt appears to have done, just weeks after the ship's October deployment, with no known timeline for being back up and running, according to CNN. This is certainly not what the Navy, which has spent a reported $22 billion for three of the advanced destroyers, wants to hear.
Trump wants a cabinet straight out of “central casting,” so we asked someone out of Central Casting their thoughts
Central Casting's Greg Lawson weighs in on who has the looks and the TV presence to serve in the president-elect's reality TV-based administration. 
Samsung didn't fail to notice the popularity of Apple's new glossy black iPhone 7, so the Korean company will now release a shiny black version of its popular Galaxy S7 Edge phone, according to the Korea Herald. The new black S7 might give Samsung fans something to get excited about after months of talk about the exploding Galaxy Note 7 debacle. The company already has an Onyx Black S7 Edge, but that's a matte black color, while the new phone will be glossy. Samsung hopes to fire up sales to counter the popularity of the iPhone 7.
And new colors do work for Samsung. From the Korea Herald's report: "The Coral Blue version, since its launch on Nov. 11, is selling almost 15,000 units every day on average, while the iPhone 7 has seen its daily unit sales fall to about 10,000 units in recent weeks."  MS
In a Facebook post, Carson teased the announcement of his appointment to President-elect Trump's cabinet. "After serious discussions with the Trump transition team, I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our inner cities great for everyone," he wrote. 
Curated link sharing website Digg just announced some internal shakeups. Its CEO, Gary Liu, and editorial director, Anna Dubenko, are both leaving the company. Liu is moving on to the South China Morning Post and Dubenko is joining the New York Times. 
In the same post, the company announced the site has tripled its monthly revenue over the last year. Digg will now begin looking for a new CEO; managing editor Dan Fallon will head up the entire editorial team.  CW
Yesterday, New York Magazine's Gabriel Sherman wrote that results in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania may have been compromised, based on the findings of a group of computer scientists and election security experts. 
One of those experts, J. Alex Halderman, penned a Medium post today to "set the record straight" and clarify what he and others have said to the Clinton campaign—that while there isn't clear proof of wrongdoing, it's worth pursuing a recount to put minds at ease and set a precedent for manually reviewing paper ballots in future elections. 
Were this year's deviations from pre-election polls the results of a cyberattack? Probably not. I believe the most likely explanation is that the polls were systematically wrong, rather than that the election was hacked. But I don't believe that either one of these seemingly unlikely explanations is overwhelmingly more likely than the other. The only way to know whether a cyberattack changed the result is to closely examine the available physical evidence — paper ballots and voting equipment in critical states like Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania. Unfortunately, nobody is ever going to examine that evidence unless candidates in those states act now, in the next several days, to petition for recounts . . . 
Examining the physical evidence in these states — even if it finds nothing amiss — will help allay doubt and give voters justified confidence that the results are accurate. It will also set a precedent for routinely examining paper ballots, which will provide an important deterrent against cyberattacks on future elections. 
• Hillary Clinton's popular vote lead is now up to 2,017,563—1.5 percentage points—and a group of computer scientists and election lawyers believe results in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania may have been compromised and denied Clinton votes.
• President-elect Trump is expected to name Nikki Haley ambassador to the United Nations and has reportedly already offered Ben Carson the role of housing secretary. Democrats Harold Ford Jr. and Michelle A. Rhee might be in the running for the transportation and education departments, respectively.
• Facebook really, really wants in on China—so much so that it has reportedly created a censorship tool to suppress posts in certain geographic areas. Whether Facebook will actually make the tool public is unclear, but a number of employees working on the project quit "after expressing misgivings about it," according to the New York Times.
• Speaking of cracking the Chinese market: Airbnb is in "advanced" talks to acquire Xiaozhu.com, a rival service in China, Bloomberg reports. 
• Telegram, the encrypted messaging app that boasts more than 100 million users, just unveiled an anonymous blogging platform, appropriately dubbed Telegraph. 
• In a blog post yesterday, Twitter reiterated that using its data products or public data for surveillance—that is, granting access to law enforcement or other parties for that purpose—is explicitly prohibited.  PM
A trade body for major publishers sent Google and Facebook a letter urging them to tackle fake news
The trade body Digital Content Next (DCN), which represents over 70 major publishers including the New York Times, the Washington Post, Viacom, Time Inc., Hearst, Gannett, Bloomberg, ESPN, the AP, BBC.com, and more, has sent Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Google CEO Sundar Pichai a pointed letter urging them to tackle the epidemic of fake news being shared across their sites, reports Business Insider. The glut of partisan fake news stories in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election has been seen by some as a factor in Trump winning the presidency. Here is the meat of Digital Content Next's CEO Jason Kint's letter:
To be clear, our plea is not that you somehow attempt to evaluate bias or censor legitimate speech. Moreover, your recent statements about potentially identifying "fake news" for what it is, and depriving the providers of this noxious material the economic sustenance to create it in the first place, are encouraging and constructive.
However, to paraphrase a recent New York Times editorial, we believe you owe your users, and democracy itself, far more. Your companies make it a point to celebrate "moonshots" that require extraordinary vision, resources and engineering prowess. Your capacity to pursue these projects is built on your extraordinary dominance over the digital media landscape.
Wouldn't it make sense for you to pursue cleaning-up the garbage littering the digital media ecosystem with the same excitement, investment and vigilance with which you pursue these huge, visionary projects? We don't see that in your public statements or actions. Over the years, you have claimed repeatedly that you are not media companies; instead, the word "utility" has been used, occasionally by your own executives. But if even 1% of the water in our local utility was polluted, wouldn't it be right to move heaven and earth to clean it up?
Facebook wants to get into China so badly it created a censorship tool
The social media giant, in a move to get a foot in the door in the most populous country on the planet, created coding software tools that would allow for easy censorship of users' news feeds, says the New York Times:
The social network has quietly developed software to suppress posts from appearing in people's news feeds in specific geographic areas, according to three current and former Facebook employees, who asked for anonymity because the tool is confidential. The feature was created to help Facebook get into China, a market where the social network has been blocked, these people said. Mr. Zuckerberg has supported and defended the effort, the people added.
The Times adds that the tool may never be used and that it's just one of the ideas Facebook is throwing around to get into China. The report also notes that if the tool is eventually used in the country, Facebook itself probably wouldn't be suppressing posts; rather the tool would be given to a third party in charge of censorship. MG
The makers behind the 100 million-user-strong Telegram secure messaging app have unveiled the new anonymous blogging platform named Telegraph, reports TechCrunch. 
Telegraph shares many of the characteristics of Telegram with its minimalist interface and anonymity for users. The new platform supports markdown, in-line photos, and other embeds and allows anyone to write articles, then share them by simply sharing the URL with others. MG