The price of bitcoin surged this week, reaching its highest level since late July as investors moved past a series of hacks that brought negative attention to the digital currency space.
The BTC/USD exchange rate advanced 0.2% to $639.62 as of 1:08 pm ET, according to CoinDesk. Bitcoin’s price has surged more than 4% this week, reaching its highest level since July 30.
There were no immediate catalysts behind the move, a sign that the digital currency had finally shaken off its mid-year slump. Bitcoin plunged in August after Hong Kong-based exchange Bitfinex reported that around $70 million worth of the digital currency had been compromised in a major cyber breach. The firm later announced it would “socialize” the losses among bitcoin balances.
Bitfinex recently issued the newly created BFX token to account holders affected by the hack. Customers are now able to exchange their tokens for a stake in the brokerage.
Prior to the summer slump, bitcoin had traded at its highest level in two years thanks to greater mainstream success and growing demand in China, where investors are trying to diversify away from yuan-denominated assets. However, bitcoin’s value remains prone to wild fluctuations due to liquidity challenges that often characterize a market still in its nascent stage.
Despite summer volatility, bitcoin has gained nearly 50% against the US dollar since the beginning of the year. The US dollar been in a three-week uptrend against other fiat currencies amid growing expectations the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates by year-end. The US dollar index is down around half a percent since the start of 2016.
EconomicCalendar.com provides the latest economic news and financial events that move the market.
Sam Bourgi is a financial market analyst for economiccalendar.com. He has more than six years of progressive experience in economic and financial analysis, research consulting and sectoral analysis. As a published author in government, peer-reviewed, online and industry sources, he has developed a fundamental approach to the financial markets with a broad focus on stock indices, commodities and the technology sector. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Windsor and Master’s degree from McMaster University.
Trading forex, equities, CFDs, or other assets carries financial risk. You may lose your initial deposit or more. The information on this website is provided for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as financial advice. Trading is risky. Always consult with an independent financial adviser to give you trading advice tailored to your individual circumstances. View the Full Disclaimer Here