This is a paid press relase. CoinTelegraph does not endorse and is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy, quality, advertising, products or other materials on this page. Readers should do their own research before taking any actions related to the company. CoinTelegraph is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.
Conference shares final agenda including 50 speakers and 500 attendees for November event in London
LONDON -- October 31, 2016 -- Blockchain: Money, the financial technology conference bringing together industry leaders November 6 & 7, 2016 in London, has announced that John McAfee will join as a keynote speaker. Conference organizers also shared the final agenda, including 50 speakers, and a searchable attendee list. The agenda includes panel discussions and speaker sessions focusing on actionable strategies, technologies, and innovations covering topics including the blockchain, bitcoin, investing, regulation, startups, and the Internet of Things.
Panel discussions will be led by the best in blockchain, representing timely topics. Specific conference panels include:
Representing the bitcoin and blockchain industries will be Roger Ver (Bitcoin.com), George Kikvadze (BitFury), Marco Streng (Genesis Mining), Jeff Garzik and Matthew Roszak (Bloq), Eva Kaili (EU Parliament), Anthony Macey (Barclays), and Dr. James Smith (Elliptic), Brian Hoffman (OpenBazaar), Brian Crain (Monax). Speakers representing banking, finance and security will include Esteban Van Goor (Baker & Mckenzie), Mark Hornsby (Royal Bank of Scotland), Hubert J.P. Jolly (Citi Treasury & Trade Services), Alex Shelkovnikov (Deloitte), Ajit Tripathi (PwC), and Fabian Vandenreydt (SWIFT). Noah Raford (Dubai Futures Foundation) and Andrew Filipowski (Tally Capital) will explore topics on investing, funding, and fintech startups. To view a complete list of speakers, please visit this page.
“John McAfee joins an already impressive list of top-notch thought leaders and innovators in the financial technology sector,” said Founder Moe Levin. “The Blockchain: Money conference will bring together the brightest minds to one of the epicenters of fintech.”
Blockchain: Money shared a searchable list of 500+ registered guests, representing a diverse group of entrepreneurs, leaders, and investors in the fintech and blockchain industries. To view a list of registered guests, please visit this page.