Change editions:  Austria · Denmark · France · Germany · Italy · Norway · Spain · Sweden
But despite installing the machines, the digital currency won't be accepted as a payment method. Photo: Josep Lago / AFP file picture
Switzerland's national rail service (SBB) said Friday it was set to launch a new service selling the digital currency Bitcoin at all ticket machines across the country.
The SBB said it had been testing customer demand for Bitcoin across the wealthy Alpine federation and decided to launch a two-year pilot project beginning on November 11.
"Until now, there have only been limited opportunities to purchase Bitcoin in Switzerland," the rail service said in a statement.
It said that it would use its network of 1,000 ticket machines to let customers swap other currencies for Bitcoin, provided they give a mobile phone number for identification.
Transactions will be capped at 500 Swiss francs ($500, 460 euros) each but SBB stressed customers will not be allowed to buy tickets with the e-money.
With the current value of the currency around 689 Swiss francs, customers "will be able to purchase fractions of Bitcoin," a CFF spokesman told AFP.
Bitcoin has stirred interest as a way to move money around the world with no fees or bank involvement, but secrecy surrounding the currency, including its creator, have led to some to questions on its stability and transparency.
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 million players.
Theater Neumarkt's 2017 grant is slashed after a "voodoo" performance attacking Roger Köppel.
Switzerland's dog rescue volunteers have teamed up with the Swiss Federation of Civil Drones for the new venture.
The head of the World Trade Organization said he has received no indication the United States would move to leave the WTO under Donald Trump's administration. 4 comments
Skiers will get their hands on a season pass for the impressively low price of 222 francs ($218) after 75,000 people signed up for the crowdfunded deal.
Authorities in Zurich want to issue a special ID card to help people who need cannabis for medical reasons.
Court finds cyclist guilty of causing the death of a fellow competitor in a 2014 cycle race. 2 comments
Solidar Switzerland invited passers by to pose for photographs next to a flesh-and-blood figure of Barbie's beau Ken to highlight dire working conditions in Chinese toy factories.
Calmy-Rey and Clinton were involved in diplomacy at the time of the donation. Photo: Maria Belen Perez Gabilondo/AFP
No action will be taken over the Swiss government's half-a-million-franc donation to the Clinton Foundation. 5 comments
Montreux Noël has introduced extra security measures this year in light of recent terror attacks in Europe.
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 million players.