Coinsecure Launches Real Time Bitcoin Trading App for India’s 190m Smartphone Users | Finance Magnates
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyTradingCoinsecure Launches Real Time Bitcoin Trading App for India’s 190m Smartphone Users
The app displays live order books and users can place bids and asks, withdraw or deposit funds, and check pending
Coinsecure, the Indian Bitcoin exchange, merchant services and blockchain developer, today launched its mobile app for real-time Bitcoin trading on the Android system. Coinsecure aims to target India’s huge and ever growing smartphone user base.
Coinsecure CEO and founder Mohit Kalra said: “With over 190 million smartphone users in India, putting a technology so disruptive like Bitcoin in their hands is a win – win situation.”
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
The developers say that while the app targets traders, it is also simple and easy for a beginner to use. The app enables users to buy, sell, send, receive and accept Bitcoin with ease. The app also displays live order books. Users can place their bids and asks, withdraw and deposit funds, check pending orders, all with just the click of a button.
“Coinsecure strives to ensure that users can retain a stellar experience across all platforms. Desktop web was our first build. A mobile app for multiple devices is the next step in bringing Bitcoin to India”, said Benson Samuel, CTO and co-founder.
Coinsecure first launched its Bitcoin exchange in January, 2015 with the intent of bringing Bitcoin to India. Coinsecure’s exchange is a real time live spot trading exchange with fully open order books. Coinsecure additionally provides customers with a merchant payment gateway, a variety of wallet services, and a public API. Earlier this year, Coinsecure announced their Series A raise of 1.2 Million USD. Most recently, Coinsecure signed partnerships with BitPay for merchant services and with OKLink for remittance services.
This is realy exciting for me to see the third world economy having acces to global trade like that by the phone and bitcoin and chalenge the system that maintain most of them in a state of ignorence and poverty. It will give a chance to the individual to open more economic opportunities at their finger tips . But all that technology needs power and lots of computors, u know. So those 190 millions smart phone users, how are they going to recharge their batteries…In China, smog every where because of coal, how sir Mohit Karla and his people are going to manage the global warming because of the thecnology use…u can’t see across the street in Shangaï… Thanks for this article.
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 9 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 9 hours
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions