 Advertise | Bookmark | Contact Us | E-Mail List |  | Update Page | UraniumSeek.com 
Commentary : Gold Review : Markets : News Wire : Quotes : Silver : Stocks - Main Page 
Gold Seeker Weekly Wrap-Up: Gold and Silver Fall About 2% and 1% on the Week
The Road to Recovery: Global Epocalypse Inevitable According to Trump’s Chief and World’s Largest Failing Bank
Gold and Silver Market Morning: Nov-25-2016 -- Gold and Silver looking for a bottom!
As of yesterday it was eight years to the day since Bitcoin’s initial white paper was posted to the internet.
And what a birthday party it had, soaring from $614 on October 1st to around $728 today with gold and silver also rocketing higher, with silver up more than 3% today.
Part of the reason why bitcoin has seen such a price resurgence is because of the increased demand for the currency in the Chinese market.
You would think that the Chinese economy would be doing well after the Yuan’s SDR basket inclusion, but in spite of that, it continues to depreciate – hitting a 6-year low in October in conjunction with an estimated total of over $573.2 billion in Chinese capital outflows so far this year.
If these trends continue, which they likely will considering the depreciative nature of fiat currencies, the prospect of an $800 bitcoin in the near future is not far fetched.
Of course, you know Bitcoin’s price is doing especially well whenever the coin goes through one of its brief barrages of negative press.
But you’ll never hear Forbes speak badly about the criminal central bankers systematically stealing from everyone through their fiat currency inflation.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is also suspicious of bitcoin. (What else is new?) The Commission is still trying to figure out what to do three years after the Winklevoss brothers filed their Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust in July 2013.
Since then, bitcoin has risen some 610 percent and many more new filings for additional ETFs tracking bitcoin await SEC approval. In typical regulatory fashion,  the SEC has “moved” on the filings by seeking additional public comment.
The SEC is worried about the stability of bitcoin and its platforms and how regulations regarding bitcoin would evolve.  But the SEC will always have “worries” – right up to when bitcoin exchange-traded funds are approved to a warm welcome in the marketplace from investors seeking something more stable than wretched central banking currencies.
Bitcoin is actually a pseudonymous crypto-currency, yet recently mainstream media networks like Bloomberg put articles out saying “Bitcoin isn’t anonymous enough”.
Obviously it isn’t anonymous, it was never intended to be completely anonymous. If the people who wrote the article knew anything about the platform they’d understand that its inherent design is pseudonymous by definition because of the fact that the addresses and transactions are recorded on the blockchain.
While we’re big precious metals advocates, physical bullion is not highly divisible, especially for transactions of less than a dollar or two. Bitcoin provides a more pragmatic solution to that shortcoming through it’s ability to be nearly instantaneously exchanged and it’s high divisibility – up to 100,000,000 individual units or “satoshi” to be exact.
Some of the benefits of cryptocurrencies are highlighted in one of our most recent Anarchast videos with Dan Larimer.
Bitcoin is proving to be a legitimate existential threat to the globalist elites, which we have seen through not only their demonization of the currency, but also in their efforts and attempts to locate and arrest its creators.
For example in Australia, the attorney general’s department wants to begin drafting legislative proposals to include bitcoin and other crypto-currency exchanges in its anti-money laundering laws. Their goal is to finalize that legislation by 2018.
If you’ve been following our previous articles or if you read the Economist, you may recall that the cover of the 1988 issue of the economist magazine had a picture of a phoenix rising from the ashes with a medallion bearing the year 2018 and the title “Get ready for a world currency”.
Now, the globalist financiers are starting to squirm in their seats as they watch some of these emerging crypto currencies hinder their ability to exact absolute monetary control.
One of the best ways to avoid the globalist financial stranglehold is to trade using cryptocurrencies. That’s why this year at the world’s largest anarcho-capitalist conference, Anarchapulco, we are planning on having an entire day devoted exclusively to cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology!
If you want to learn more about emerging crypto technology plus other innovations from leading experts in the space, please buy a ticket while they’re still available.  And of course the tickets will be available for purchase via cryptocurrency.
The day before Anarchapulco we’ll also be holding a one day TDV Internationalization and Investment Summit.  You can see more on that here.
The world is changing rapidly.  Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies could defeat the entire central banking system without even one shot fired.  It’s exciting times and we are just getting started!
 -- Published: Wednesday, 2 November 2016 | E-Mail  | Print  | Source: GoldSeek.com
Gold Headlines | Gold News Wire | Gold Price Charts | Gold Stocks | SilverSeek - Front Page 
The content on this site is protected by U.S. and international copyright laws and is the property of GoldSeek.com and/or the providers of the content under license. By "content" we mean any information, mode of expression, or other materials and services found on GoldSeek.com. This includes editorials, news, our writings, graphics, and any and all other features found on the site. Please contact us for any further information.
The views contained here may not represent the views of GoldSeek.com, its affiliates or advertisers. GoldSeek.com makes no representation, warranty or guarantee as to the accuracy or completeness of the information (including news, editorials, prices, statistics, analyses and the like) provided through its service. Any copying, reproduction and/or redistribution of any of the documents, data, content or materials contained on or within this website, without the express written consent of GoldSeek.com, is strictly prohibited. In no event shall GoldSeek.com or its affiliates be liable to any person for any decision made or action taken in reliance upon the information provided herein.