Gold And Bitcoin Tell A Story About Central Bank Policy - SPDR Gold Trust ETF (NYSEARCA:GLD) | Seeking Alpha
Central bank policies of quantitative easing and low interest rates effectively increased the availability of traditional paper foreign exchange instruments.
The currency markets have a huge weight hanging over them these days. It has been eight long years since the global economic crisis threatened to decimate markets. Central bankers, as financial firefighters, arrived on the scene with tool boxes filled with accommodative fixes and in Europe, Asia, and the U.S., they remain on a dovish monetary path.
European and Japanese interest rates are in negative territory. U.S. rates are currently at 25-50 basis points on the short-term Fed Funds rate, and the Fed is threatening to hike the rate by 25 basis points by the end of 2016. The market consensus now shows an 80% likelihood of a hike. At less than 1%, the yield on the dollar remains close to a historic low.
The U.S. economy is growing at a moderate pace, and the central bank has officially moved from accommodation to tightening. However, the short-term rate is lower than it should be at this time given economic conditions. The Fed continues to look over its shoulder at the rest of the world and fear of the next economic shoe to drop has prevented the central bank from acting to fulfill its promise to increase short-term rates this year.
Meanwhile, the only thing holding the U.S. currency down these days could be uncertainty surrounding the Presidential election on November 8. However, on Tuesday, the dollar index broke above technical resistance at 97.61 on the December futures contract for the first time since March 10, 2016.
One sign that the dollar and all other currencies have a real problem today is the price action in gold and bitcoin in 2016. These two assets have outperformed all forms of paper money, and if central banks remain on the same course, they are likely to continue higher in the months ahead. Gold and Bitcoin have signaled that faith in government issued paper money has declined this year.
We Are Putting Ourselves Out On A Limb And Calling A Gold Bottom, And This Is The Reason Why