Blockchain.info, the largest web-based Bitcoin wallet, suffered a DNS hijacking attack today when users accessing the site were pointed to the wrong servers, exposing visitors to all sorts of attacks.
The incident took place around 11:00 GMT when the site's DNS information changed from CloudFlare to a cheap hosting provider based in Tulsa, USA.
Paranoid Bitcoin users noticed the DNS hijacking right away and started warning each other on Reddit and Twitter.
Blockchain.info took their website offline as they fought to reclaim their website's DNS records and point them to the right servers.
DNS hijacks are extremely dangerous since an attacker can point a site's visitors to his server where he runs a clone of the original website.
During the time Blockchain.info DNS information led users to the wrong IPs, an attacker could have collected login credentials for everyone authenticating on the fake portal.
The same goes for users of mobile or desktop apps that use the Blockchain.info API, which makes queries to the same DNS server.
Blockchain.info staff regained access to their DNS records around 21:00 GMT, when they issued the following statement:
“  Earlier today, we discovered our DNS registrar had been compromised. We took immediate action to resolve the issue. To be abundantly cautious, we’re waiting for the DNS to propagate universally across the web before bringing our services back. Once DNS has propagated, we expect to restore services ASAP. Our sincerest apologies for any inconvenience.  ”
At the time of writing, the Blockchain.info website is functional once again, and its DNS records point to the correct servers.
During the attack, Blockchain.info was served from the following two IPs, 198.44.48.226 and 192.236.200.26, loaded from the DNS servers below.
UPDATE: The DNS hijacking attack was also detected by OpenDNS and DNSStream (1, 2). Blockchain.info CEO also posted a blog post about the incident.
NETGATE Internet Security: An efficient and reliable software utility designed to function as a complete online security tool against any and all Internet threats
FortKnox Personal Firewall: Protect your system from various inbound or outbound attacks using a powerful, yet fully-configurable personal firewall that can keep threats away
File Monster: Completely erase files from your computer so the information is unrecoverable, with the help of this straightforward software solution
OpenVPN: A full-featured SSL VPN solution which can accommodate a wide range of configurations in order to provide a stealthy and safe web browsing experience
Sticky Password Premium: Professional security application for storing multipurpose passwords in a secure environment, with support for Cloud-based technology
Sticky Password: User-friendly program that helps you store passwords, bookmarks, identity details and secure memos while offering support for browser add-ons
Zemana AntiLogger: Make sure that your private data will remain private by using this software application that prevents harmful applications from damaging your computer
Bug in Mirai Source Code Could Stop Some DDoS Attacks Dead in Their Tracks
© 2001-2016 Softpedia. All rights reserved. Softpedia® and the Softpedia® logo are registered trademarks of SoftNews NET SRL. Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies to offer you a complete experience.  Find out more  or  CLOSE   this notification permanently.