Billionaire investor Draper leads $4.2 million funding in U.S. blockchain start-up | Reuters
Venture capital investor Tim Draper speaks at a panel during the Television Critics Association Cable Summer Press Tour in Beverly Hills, California August 5, 2015. REUTERS/Danny Moloshok
Texas-based Factom, Inc., a blockchain technology company that secures data, said on Wednesday it has raised $4.2 million in financing from a slew of global investors led by billionaire investor Tim Draper.
Blockchain technology powers the digital currency bitcoin and enables data-sharing across a network of individual computers. It has gained worldwide popularity due to its perceived usefulness in recording and keeping track of assets across practically all industries.
Factom Apollo and Factom Iris are products built on the company's open source. They have developed ways to use the blockchain to keep records and identities more secure.
"Blockchains first pushed the boundaries of computer science with the simple yet revolutionary ability to trade digital value openly," said Paul Snow, chief architect and co-founder of Factom in a statement.
"Now we are pushing the limits of computer science in a second revolution. The Factom protocol allows for the open coordination of processes against immutable ledgers of data. It will have the same kind of impact on data and systems as the first revolution had on value."
Draper said data security is a key issue among governments, banks, car companies, credit card companies, retailers, and any organization concerned about hacking.
"By decentralizing data through the blockchain, Factom avoids critical failures due to user error or hacker," he added.
Other investors in the funding round included BnkToTheFuture, a global online investment platform focused on financial innovation and technology.
China-based Fenbushi Corporation and Fenbushi Investment Fund also invested in Factom. The group runs a venture capital firm that exclusively invests in blockchain-enabled companies.
Online spending by U.S. bargain hunters climbed to above $1 billion by Thanksgiving evening, according to Adobe Digital Index, surging almost 14 percent from a year ago and reflecting a broader trend away from brick-and-mortar shopping.
ZURICH/FRANKFURT U.S. healthcare company Johnson & Johnson said on Friday it was in preliminary talks with Actelion about a potential takeover of Europe's largest biotech firm, currently valued at about $20 billion.
Reuters is the news and media division of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface
Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
Site Feedback Corrections Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines AdChoices Terms of Use Privacy Policy