Bitcoin prices surged on Saturday, reaching their highest level in nearly three months, as buyers returned to the digital currency arena after a volatile summer season.
The BTC/USD exchange rate spiked 3.9% to $654.52 at 3:31 pm ET, according to CoinDesk. The pair is on track for its highest settlement since July 30.
The latest recovery in prices is partially attributed to stronger liquidity, a sign of improved confidence in the market. Since September 21, more than 80% of speculative positions on bitcoin have been long, according to digital currency trading platform Whaleclub.
Prior to the summer downturn, bitcoin was enjoying a period of growing stability thanks to greater mainstream uptake. For many in the investment community, bitcoin’s finite supply and blockchain infrastructure make it ideal for diversification purposes.
Analysts have also noted a major change in market confidence over the past two weeks, as investors looked past a series of negative news headlines involving bitcoin. The currency’s value declined sharply over the summer after nearly 120,000 bitcoins were compromised in a high-profile security breach at Hong Kong-based broker Bitfinex.
Bitfinex is reportedly seeking a deal with the hacker to recover the lost funds. In a blog post on Saturday, the company said it wanted to offer “clear instructions” on how to communicate with the hacker. Bitfinex had previously offered to give 5% of the value of the stolen coins to anyone who provided information that could lead to their retrieval.
EconomicCalendar.com provides the latest economic news and financial events that move the market.
Sam Bourgi is a financial market analyst for economiccalendar.com. He has more than six years of progressive experience in economic and financial analysis, research consulting and sectoral analysis. As a published author in government, peer-reviewed, online and industry sources, he has developed a fundamental approach to the financial markets with a broad focus on stock indices, commodities and the technology sector. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Windsor and Master’s degree from McMaster University.
Trading forex, equities, CFDs, or other assets carries financial risk. You may lose your initial deposit or more. The information on this website is provided for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as financial advice. Trading is risky. Always consult with an independent financial adviser to give you trading advice tailored to your individual circumstances. View the Full Disclaimer Here