You might not be able to find anyone who hasn’t heard of bitcoin by now. It’s the most popular cryptocurrency on everyone’s lips. Bitcoin made its debut in 2008, and it was created by Satoshi Nakamoto. His vision was a currency built on ‘a system of electronic transactions without relying on trust.’
Bitcoin wasn’t the first (and won’t be the last) cryptocurrency ever created. Today we have many digital currencies, such as Litecoin, Peercoin, Namecoin, QuarkCoin and more.
Bitcoin and other digital currencies do have their associated risks. But they’ve also got innovative technology behind it.
If you were to transfer bitcoins from one person to another, you could do so via the blockchain. Think of it as a public ledger which records all transactions ever made. The creation of more ‘blocks’ (transactions) allows the ledger to grow, thus increasing the size of the blockchain.
The reason I say this technology is innovative is because of all its possible uses.
It can track ownership of digital and physical assets. It can be an alternative voting system. It can create digital contracts for marriages, financial contracts and ownership. And it could even track the supply chain of various products.
Oh, and the best part, the blockchain doesn’t need oversight by some governmental authority. Rather, it’s maintained by the market. Miners, who maintain the blockchain, do so in exchange for bitcoins.
Each time a miner validates and creates a new block, they receive bitcoins. This is how new bitcoins enter the system. Miners receive 50 bitcoins for the first 210,000 blocks they create. For the next 210,000, they receive 25 bitcoins. The reward continues to halve for every 210,000 blocks.
But bitcoin might not be the be all and end all when it comes to cryptocurrencies. There might be an undiscovered digital currency which takes over bitcoin and even the US dollar.
Scoin is the next ‘big thing’, according to its creators, CoinSpace. Scoin launches in January 2017, and registration is now taking place for investors.
According to Cryptocoins News: ‘Basically they [CoinSpace] are building a pyramid scheme (sorry, I mean binary member system).’ Coinspace is Malta-based, with a variety of websites to watch out for. A video released by Coinspace states the company will mail coins to buyers.
The smallest buy-in amount is 300 euros. But they also have bigger packages ranging up to 12,000 euros.
‘One of their videos explains what cryptocurrency is and offers a weak explanation of why Scoin will be so valuable. The site gladly doesn’t mention Bitcoin very often, and strangely does not appear to encourage people to send bitcoins in exchange for Scoins. Again, one of the strangest things about this project is that they promise to mail the coins to the clients — a fundamentally awkward thing to say about any cryptocurrency. Why not just send them over the blockchain?’
Marketing Xtreme shares the same views as Cryptocoins News, stating: ‘The company is pretty much a Ponzi scheme because the only source of income that goes to this company is through affiliate investments and not any retail sales.’
The cryptocurrency scene has its fair share of scammers and con artists. CoinSpace is one more that you might want to stay away from.
But proceed with caution when entering into any cryptocurrency market. Remember, these markets aren’t regulated. The value of digital coins is dependent on supply and demand. Ultimately, investing in cryptocurrencies is a speculative punt.
PS: Investing in the stock market can be easy. Some may tell you that it’s hard, throwing complicated examples at you. But that’s because they’re interested in your money sitting in their back pocket!
Money Morning’s Publisher Kris Sayce has written a report all about investing isn’t as hard as you think simple and easy. Instead of taking your money, Kris wants to help you invest for yourself.
In Kris’ report, ‘The Ultimate Starters Guide for Buying and Selling Shares’, he’ll show you all the ins and outs of investing. What’s more, Kris will reveal the one type of stockbroker you should never use. And there’s also a secret you need to know about investing correctly.
To find out what that secret is, and more, pick up your free copy of Kris’ report by clicking here.
Don’t hide your head in the sand. Today’s rollercoaster financial markets are your best opportunity to pick up quality investments at bargain prices.
In this special investor report you’ll discover the three investments we believe could hand you a tidy profit in 2016 and beyond.
Why it’s time to load up on Australia’s most ‘hated’ sector: Over the past five years there’s been few sectors hated more than this on the ASX. But nothing stands still in the financial markets. Kris says the time to buy into this beaten–down sector is now.
How you can buy property on the Aussie stock market: Aussie property is expensive. A house in the outer suburbs of Melbourne will set you back at least $300,000. That’s a fair whack. Kris reveals how you can get ‘skin’ into the property game using these three listed companies.
How to use this ‘Ancient Wealth Protector’ to safeguard your savings: With interest rates at 50 year lows, inflation is eating away at your savings. Stash money in a bank account today and you’re losing money. You can protect your wealth from the eroding effects of inflation by holding this precious metal in your portfolio.
To download your copy of ‘Three Best Investments in Australia for 2016 and Beyond’ take out your free subscription to Money Morning.
Simply enter your email address in the box below and click ‘Subscribe Now’.
We will collect and handle your personal information in accordance with our Privacy Policy. You can cancel your subscription at any time.
Ten year small-cap veteran reveals three tiny Aussie companies earmarked to trounce the ASX 200 in 2016
Aussie blue-chips copped a beating over the last 12 months. And if the turbulent start to 2016 is anything to go by, our most widely held stocks are in for more pain this year. However, there’s some stocks that can rise hundreds of percent despite the wider market doom & gloom. We’re talking about Aussie small-cap stocks. In this report you’ll discover three Aussie small-cap stocks primed to smash blue-chip gains in 2016
Simply enter your email address in the box below and click ‘subscribe now’.
We will collect and handle your personal information in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
Copyright © Money Morning Australia | ACN: 117 765 009 / ABN: 33 117 765 009 / ASFL: 323 988
Become a better, smarter, richer investor...take out your FREE Subscription to Money Morning now.
Privacy Statement: We will collect and handle your personal information in accordance with our Privacy Policy. You can cancel your subscription at any time.