What's Better For Your Portfolio: Gold, The US Dollar or Bitcoin? | Equities.com
This Week in Emerging Growth: Dow Jones Closes Over 19,000, Can Now Drink in Canada
With Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen announcing her willingness to allow the US economy to run hot into the end of the year, we see the Fed’s reaction to less-than-optimistic news like the IMF cutting global growth forecasts. For the US, that revision is 1.6%--the slowest annual GDP growth in 7 years.
We’ve come a long way from the negative 2.8% move in GDP back in 2009, but the biggest growth year--a positive 2.5% rise--was last seen in 2010. Since then, however, equity markets have done well and unemployment dropped from 9.9% in the December after the Financial Collapse to 4.9% this June.
Yellen was against a rate hike this September despite other Fed officials wanting to raise rates before the US presidential election. Even with unemployment low, both presidential candidates have stressed the importance of “getting the economy moving again.” But without productivity growth, this will be hard to do.
The gold traits table shown uses common terms like scarcity, liquidity and volatility to characterize gold and the US Dollar, with Bitcoin presumably thrown in to balance things out--but there are many other ways to gain more direct exposure to gold, too, through GLD or GCZ6 (December Gold Futures), just to name just a few. Certain products, like gold IRAs, are regulated by the IRS as this source on gold IRAs shows, and with other strategies like trading gold futures, there's the capital gains tax to factor in as well.
Up until the middle of last week, GCZ6 had been rising since Monday, bouncing off a support level in the high 1250s Tuesday morning before climbing to the 1270s earlier on Wednesday as shown in the graph. The Fed also released its Beige Book last Wednesday--which includes commentary on economic activity from late August up to the time ending Friday October 7.
The Fed called the US’s pace of growth “slight to moderate” during that period, citing modest wage growth amid a tight labor market and mild overall price growth.
This article is the result of research from a variety of individuals and sources, and does not reflect investing advice on the part of Rosland Capital.
DISCLOSURE: The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors, and do not represent the views of equities.com. Readers should not consider statements made by the author as formal recommendations and should consult their financial advisor before making any investment decisions. To read our full disclosure, please go to: http://www.equities.com/disclaimer
Connecticut Post Mall in Milford helps 'bring back the magic' for Black Friday shoppers
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 million players.
iGen Networks Corp is engaged in investing in and managing for growth private high-tech companies that offer products and services in the domains of wireless broadband, software as a service,…
Founded by serial entrepreneur Arie Trouw, XY Findables follows a single guiding principle: customers should never lose anything important again. With over 50,000 users around the world, more than 100,000…
BioSculpture Technology, Inc. (“BST”) is a commercial-stage medical device manufacturer of liposuction surgical instruments for surgeons. It offers the FDA-cleared Twin Cannula Assisted Liposuction ("TCAL") Airbrush Liposculptor II® controllers, Airbrush®…
* All dates and time are being displayed in Eastern Standard Time (EST).