Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Bitcoin Press Release: Groundbreaking retirement investment company introduces new gold rebate as investors see gains of over 40.
October 20, 2016, Los Angeles, CA – Bitcoin IRA, the first and only bitcoin-based retirement investment company, today announced the introduction of a gold rebate for new clients. While supplies last, investors who open an account with Bitcoin IRA will automatically qualify for a rebate in the form of gold eagle coins. The rebate is available to all new customers, giving them an extra incentive to save for retirement with an innovative, fast-growing alternative investment.
Depending on the size of the account they open, new investors are eligible to earn up to a full ounce of gold:
Since Bitcoin IRA officially launched in May, the value of bitcoin has risen almost 40%, climbing from $452 per bitcoin to $637 as of October 20th. This is expected to grow significantly over the long term as a result of bitcoins’ limited supply and increased usage, making a bitcoin IRA potentially much more profitable than conventional IRAs.
Bitcoin IRA offers both traditional and Roth IRA options, which offer the same tax incentives as regular IRAs and 401(k)s. Uniquely, the retirement portfolios are made up of actual bitcoins, which are stored in a secure, private digital wallet. In addition, investors keep total control over their bitcoin deposits, with no holding fees and the ability to withdraw once the term is over.
In addition to the gold rebate, Bitcoin IRA offers a similar rebate for silver, giving customers the option to receive a 1% rebate in real silver in exchange for opening a new account. For more information, interested investors can call 1 (877) 936-7175 or request a Free Bitcoin IRA Investment Guide.
Bitcoin IRA is the only bitcoin-based retirement investment portfolio that allows people to invest with actual bitcoins for their IRA or 401(k). The platform works with leading fintech professionals to provide secure, high-quality bitcoin investments.
Bitcoin IRA is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to FDIC and other consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only.
Bitcoin PR Buzz has been proudly serving the PR and marketing needs of Bitcoin and digital currency tech start-ups for over 2 years. Get your own professional Bitcoin and digital currency Press Release. Click here for more information.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.