WikiLeaks shows Clinton's team prefer a "green" altcoin for single click micro-payments and other fundraising activities.
You might assume that someone that is willing to violate her own government’s cyber security regulations and communicate via a private homebrew email server just to avoid legally-mandated public scrutiny would appreciate Bitcoin’s focus on privacy, but Hillary Clinton’s team thinks otherwise. Newly leaked Clinton correspondence from WikiLeaks shows that her campaign saw the benefits of cryptocurrency but had antipathy towards Bitcoin.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
John Podesta is the Chairman of Clinton’s campaign. He previously served as Chief of Staff to her husband and as Counselor to President Barack Obama. After being introduced to an altcoin called Ven in May 2015, Podesta passed along the information for another member of the team to check, adding that: “I don’t send all the crazy ideas I hear about at fundraisers your way, but this seems interesting and legit. Essentially digital currency with a green angle as opposed to bitcoin’s libertarian Ayn Rand schtick.”
Ayn Rand was a thinker and novelist whose philosophy of Objectivism can be considered to be promoting an extreme form of individualism (as opposed to socialism). While there is no connection between Bitcoin and Rand the roots of the cryptocurrency are of course deeply planted in a community of privacy-activists, libertarians and even anarcho-capitalists.
The Ven promoter (Stan Stalnaker) wanted Clinton’s campaign to use Ven to enable single click micro-payments and other fundraising activities for the campaign. “As we discussed, Bitcoin is being used on the Republican side and could be a useful tool, but we think Ven is a better choice for your campaign due to its environmental benefits, identity metrics and closed loop status.”
It is still unknown if Goldman Sachs or any other of the major global banks that paid Clinton hundreds of thousands of dollars per speech wanted to pay her using Bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency, but new leaked emails are coming all the time, so stay tuned.
i think that the people who don t want any regulation on the cryptocurrency are realy helping croocks and big corrupted global politicians and banks and cartel and realy it dosen t help democratie at all and freedom in anyways. I dream the futur whit one crypto monney for the globe one love for justice repartition of wealth but hey who m i just another sucker who never ask to be born … one value one world not based on speculation or corruption or u know just on equality of valu for the money you work for not speculation etc like when they unified europe whit the euro it was a beggining of what i m talking about but Brexit it was tight… for now on let them twisted what ever they want to get elected and be the slave they love and pay in god they trust in a world rule by lucifer…
According to the writer of this piece, “Ayn Rand was a thinker and novelist whose philosophy of Objectivism can be considered to be promoting an extreme form of individualism (as opposed to socialism).”
Ayn Rand supported the idea of “individual rights,” a core concept of America’s founding and a concept which our educational system has neglected to teach for generations . So we have reached a point where a writer can glibly toss out the word “extreme” to describe an advocate of individual rights.
I suppose it’s still OK to support individualism so long as you don’t really mean it. That would be “extreme” after all.
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 9 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 9 hours
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions