Following a modest decline on Monday trading, crude oil prices bounced back strongly during Monday trading amid optimistic comments from the Russian President. Vladimir Putin said they are ready to cut or freeze their production to give a boost to prices and stabilize global markets.
Speaking at an energy congress in Istanbul Putin said, “Russia is ready to join the joint measures to cap production and is calling for other oil exporters to participate”.
Algeria’s oil minister also urged other non-OPEC producers to make similar commitments to provide support to crude oil prices.
U.S. crude oil prices increased sharply to settle at around $51.35 a barrel for the first time since Oct. 15, 2015. Global benchmark Brent crude oil prices surged 2.3% to settle at $53.14 a barrel.
It’s now clear that producers are eagerly looking for higher crude oil prices to support their economic challenges. Russia, Saudi Arabia and other producers, including Venezuela and Algeria, are aggressively supporting oil glut easing measures.
Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said they are very optimistic of the deal by November. However, he also said that the group should keep its cuts in the desired range to avoid any milder market intervention.
Amid major producer’s intention to cut production, crude oil prices are poised to trade in the range of $55 to $60 a barrel during the final quarter of this year.
Following the deal, North American and Canadian production remain the major threat to crude oil prices.
North American players are showing their strong intention for higher crude oil volumes to regain their lost market share. These producers are well-set to expand their production levels with innovative fracking technologies.
U.S. oil rig count has increased at a notable rate in the last three month, signaling producers’ intention for excessive volumes. Amid the threat of U.S. and Canadian production, crude oil prices are likely to draw support from the potential OPEC deal.
EconomicCalendar.com provides the latest economic news and financial events that move the market.
Alexander is an analyst for EconomicCalendar.com who specializes in index and commodity trading. His outlook is usually near-term to medium-term. He has over 10 years of experience in the financial industry and began his career at the dealing desk. Alexander holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from University of Delaware.
Trading forex, equities, CFDs, or other assets carries financial risk. You may lose your initial deposit or more. The information on this website is provided for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as financial advice. Trading is risky. Always consult with an independent financial adviser to give you trading advice tailored to your individual circumstances. View the Full Disclaimer Here