Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
So that’s the day over, and it’s time to take our final look at the bitcoin price for this half of the week. Things have been slow so far this week, and the only real moves have come as the US session draws to a close and – shortly after – the Asian session kicks off. This could well happen again tonight, but with any luck we’ll see some volatility ahead of this period so we can get in to a position before session shutdown.
In this morning’s analysis, we mixed things up a little, and went for what we referred to as a binary strategy. Specifically, we plotted a key level and looked to enter in the direction of a break (in either direction) and target a pretty humble $5-dollar target. As things played out, this strategy got us into a trade (on a close above our 610 threshold) but we are yet to take profit on the trade. Our target is at 615, and price only managed to log highs just ahead of 613.
So, while we are in that trade, we are going to leave it alone and see how things play out. Our stop is down just below 610, so there’s not much to lose if things fall apart.
Looking specifically at this evening, we are going to bring our breakout strategy back to the fore. The chart below highlights the key levels.
As the chart shows, the range in focus for this evening is defined by support to the downside at 608, and resistance to the upside at 613. If price breaks below support, we will look to get in short towards 603 to the downside. Conversely, a close above resistance will put us long towards an immediate upside target of 618.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.