Zcash is down -51.86% on the day on a last price of $404.85. ZEC/USDT is trading between a 24hr high of $1711.10 and a 24hr low of $404.85 on a 24hr volume of 14,602 USDT or 16.5 ZEC. The all time trend is mixed.
The much heralded Zcash has launched for trading on a number of exchanges. The opening price was USDT$9,000 per Zcash on Poloniex. While the price is fluctuating strongly we are seeing a prominent downtrend from the opening high. The closing price at press time was the daily low – with a new fat red candle forming.
Notwithstanding the launch overpricing of the digital asset, traders recognize that Zcash could have very real advantages over other altcoins.
“If Bitcoin is like http for money, Zcash is https. Zcash offers total payment confidentiality, while still maintaining a decentralized network using a public blockchain. Unlike Bitcoin, Zcash transactions can be shielded to hide the sender, recipient, and value of all transactions on the blockchain. Only those with the correct view key can see the contents. Users have complete control and can opt-in to provide others with their view key at their discretion. Zcash transactions do not depend on the cooperation of other parties.”
The 2 day 30 minute candlestick chart above shows most of the ZEC history on Poloniex. Other exchanges launched earlier.
Market capitalization is the total $US dollar value of the Zcash market calculated using the formula:
The data source Poloniex does NOT offer margin trading on this digital asset.
Zcash is down -51.86% on the day and down from $9,000.00 on launch. The two day and all time trend is mixed. ZEC/USDT saw daily and all time support at 404.85, with a daily high of $1711.10 per Zcash. The market has seen a pronounced downtrend since launch. Market sentiment is bearish.
Past history is NOT an indicator of future results. Read the legal disclaimer:
This report was printed on Monday October 31 2016 02:48 hours UTC. Contact KittyBitcoin to request custom reports.
Watch for our next Bitcoin & Ethereum Market Reports coming soon – or browse reports:
Zcash, ZEC/USDT, Poloniex, Brief, Last price, Volume, Remarks, Price change, Chart, Data source, Market capitalization, Indicators, Daily high low, Trend, Support, Margin trading, Resistance, Range, Market sentiment, Summary, Disclaimer, Printed, Coming soon, cryptocurrency, bitcoins, BTC, altcoins, investing, trading, speculation, coins, investment, digital, assets, tags
@KittyBitcoin supplies mobile friendly blockchain intelligence on http://kittybitcoin.com. Their favorite color is pink and the bigger the wool ball the better.