Bitcoin-based gaming platforms are all the rage right now, although most products available are either casinos or lotteries.
One platform, however, plans to change all that. How? By allowing users to compete against other players and win based on their skills alone.
Costa Rica-based CGBets recently launched its bitcoin-based platform, which the company claims offers games different from any average bitcoin gaming platforms in several ways. According to CGBets, the platform “offers skill, logic and strategy games where winning and losing is decided by the players’ skills and intellectual abilities.”
Of course, the winners get to acquire bitcoin. The company also assured that all users are “always pitted against each other and never against the computer,” which means that “it is not the house but the best player who always wins.”
The games available right now on the platform include a basketball game, where two or more players are required to shoot the ball into the hoops; a Go game, where two players will play the board game live; and a chess game.
CGBets said it plans to add a “Duplicate Poker,” a card game based on Texas Hold’em rules, on its platform in the future.
Currently, the platform offers a “no deposit bonus promotion” giving 0.0003 BTC to new, registered players, as long as they send a request to get a free digital currency. Players can hold several accounts on CGBets but the bonus will only be given once to each player. The giveaway will continue until further notice, according to the company.
Registered users can immediately start winning BTCs with their stakes. They can choose to withdraw or transfer the winnings to their respective Bitcoin wallet at any time without restrictions.
The price of popular digital currency bitcoin continues to rally, hitting the $637.15 price mark Friday noon with a trade volume of $95.16 million.
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
Chinese online sports lottery operator 500.com has taken a controlling stake in a social poker business in an attempt to diversify its currently non-existent revenue stream.
On Friday, 500.com announced that it had taken a 51% stake in Qufan Internet Technology Inc. and Shenzhen Qufan Internet Technology Co. Ltd, which collectively operate a mobile social poker platform.
500.com says the transaction, which will cost RMB 110.5m (US $16m), is subject to certain unspecified conditions. The company didn’t offer any guidance for what type of boost this acquisition might provide to 500.com’s bottom line.
The Nasdaq-listed 500.com is desperate to show investors some capacity to generate revenue, having now gone six straight quarters without a single penny from online lottery operations following Beijing’s March 2015 decision to ‘temporarily’ suspend online sales after uncovering widespread fraud by provincial lottery administrators.
Investors will likely be hoping 500.com’s latest acquisition proves more permanent that its purchase last December of Zhejiang Shangmeng Technology Limited Company, which operates the Sumpay.cn online payment processor. 500.com sold the company in May, and while it realized a tidy profit on the quick turnaround, it didn’t inspire investor confidence in 500.com’s long-term prospects.
Beijing has been typically cryptic regarding when the 20-months-and-counting ‘temporary’ online suspension might be lifted. In May, five government ministries issued a joint notice detailing steps that needed to be taken in order to ensure future online activity would be property scrutinized, but the government has yet to take any demonstrable public action toward achieving those aims.
500.com isn’t alone in eyeing social gaming as a diversification lifeline. Casino and slots operator Entertainment Gaming Asia has been promising to unveil its new ‘Pan-Asian’ social casino platform since March. Earlier this month, the company reported that it was still “testing the platform in certain markets to assess its potential as a provider to long-term earnings.’
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
The CalvinAyre.com media group is based in Antigua in the West Indies with teams in London, Manila and Vancouver covering the global gambling industry.
Along with ensuring fair coverage of the gambling industry we highlight the great work of the Calvin Ayre Foundation.