Bill Gross Says Central Bankers are Betting Against the House - Income Investing - Barrons.com
Central bankers are like gamblers who keep trying to “double down,” – doubling a bet after losing – because they believe they will eventually win, writes veteran Janus portfolio manager Bill Gross in a new monthly commentary.
Since central banks have unlimited funds, they have gone to extremes in their quest to ignite economic growth by lowering rates. Gross argues:
How else would one characterize the “whatever it takes” statement by Mario Draghi in 2014? How else would one interpret BOJ’s Kuroda when just last week he upped the ante in Japan by capping 10 year JGB’s at 0% until inflation exceeds 2% per year? How else would a rational observer describe Carney and Yellen other than “Martingale gamblers with a wallet or a purse?” Our financial markets have become a Vegas/Macau/Monte Carlo casino, wagering that an unlimited supply of credit generated by central banks can successfully reflate global economies and reinvigorate nominal GDP growth to lower but acceptable norms in today’s highly levered world.
Where is this leading for investors? Perhaps to them abandoning financial markets in favor of Bitcoin or gold. He writes:
At some point investors – leery and indeed weary of receiving negative or near zero returns on their money, may at the margin desert the standard financial complex, for higher returning or better yet, less risky alternatives. Bitcoin and privately agreed upon block chain technologies amongst a small set of global banks, are just a few examples of attempts to stabilize the value of their current assets in future purchasing power terms. Gold would be another example – historic relic that it is.
He believes this is all likely to end very badly. He concludes his piece:
Investors/savers are now scrappin’ like mongrel dogs for tidbits of return at the zero bound. This cannot end well.
We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines. Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.
Barrons.com’s Income Investing blog helps readers find undervalued securities that offer attractive yields, with an emphasis on dividend-paying stocks, preferred shares, bonds, REITs, Master Limited Partnerships and closed-end funds.
Amey Stone is Barron’s Income Investing blogger and Current Yield columnist. She was formerly a managing editor at CBS MoneyWatch, MSN Money and AOL DailyFinance. Her responsibilities included overseeing market coverage and personal finance topics. Prior to those roles, she was a senior writer at BusinessWeek where she authored the Street Wise column online and contributed to the magazine’s Inside Wall Street column. Topics covered included economics, corporate finance, Fed policy, municipal bonds, mutual funds and dividend investing. She co-authored King of Capital, a biography of Citigroup Chairman Sandy Weill. She is a graduate of Yale University and Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism.
A.M. Roundup: Invesco and Pimco Buy Up EM Debt; Virtu Urges SEC to Examine ETFs