Former Palm Beach County School Board member Mike Murgio has decided to plead guilty in a bribery case that forced his resignation in April and embroiled him in a federal probe of an international hacking ring.
Six months after his arrest on charges of conspiring to bribe a bank official to conceal the financial activities of his son’s unlicensed Bitcoin exchange, Murgio is expected to submit a guilty plea Thursday on a lesser charge, his attorney told The Palm Beach Post.
As a result of his plea, federal prosecutors have agreed to drop the rest of their case against him, including a charge of making corrupt payments with intent to influence an officer of a financial institution, attorney Stuart Kaplan said.
A filing submitted late Tuesday in New York federal court indicates that Murgio plans to appear in a Manhattan courtroom Thursday to enter his plea.
The former high school principal is expected to be sentenced later this year or early next year, and his attorney said he hopes to avoid prison time.
“He’s got an unblemished past and has dedicated his life to education, and he certainly is hoping to put this behind him,” attorney Stuart Kaplan said.
In court on Thursday, Murgio is expected to plead guilty to a lesser charge of attempting to obstruct examination of a financial institution, Kaplan said. The charge carries a potential of up to five years in prison and the payment of fines.
The case against his son, Anthony Murgio – who authorities say ran an unlicensed Bitcoin exchange on behalf of the Israeli mastermind of a sprawling international cybercrime ring – continues, with a trial date set for February.
Anthony Murgio, a Palm Beach Gardens High School graduate, was indicted last year for his role in operating the exchange, Coin.mx, which federal agents say used bitcoins, a digital currency, to launder cash for online criminals.
Because bitcoin is a virtual currency, it is difficult to trace and is said to be how many professional hackers prefer to be paid.
Prosecutors did not accuse the former school board member of direct involvement in operating the illegal bitcoin exchange company.
But Mike Murgio and his son were charged with paying bribes to the chairman of a New Jersey credit union in exchange for taking control of the institution, which officials say Anthony Murgio then used as “a captive bank” to operate Coin.mx.
The charges against the Murgios were loosely related to a separate federal probe into a hacking attack against JPMorgan Chase in 2014, considered the largest theft of customer information from a U.S. financial institution.
Authorities say Coin.mx was owned and controlled by an Israeli named Gery Shalon, who was indicted in November for an alleged role in the JPMorgan hack and online attacks on several other financial services companies and media outlets.
Together, those attacks affected more than 100 million customers and constituted “one of the largest thefts of financial-related data in history,” U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said last year.
Neither Mike Murgio nor Anthony Murgio were charged with any involvement in the hacking case.
But the New York Times reported last year that Anthony Murgio was believed to have traveled to Russia in recent years, where the hackers may have operated from, and that he “might have some information” about the JPMorgan attack.
Shoppers lined up at stores and flocked to their computer screens in search of bargains on Black Friday, putting the retail industry on track...
One person was wounded in a shooting Friday afternoon in West Palm Beach, city police report.The shooting occurred just after 2:30 p.
There were multiple fatalities in an elementary school bus crash in Chattanooga, according to police.
The annual Juice Bowl football game at a park in Louisville, Kentucky, has left five people injured and two men dead on Thanksgiving.
In the hours before authorities say Austin Harrouff stabbed two people to death and was found biting one of their faces in Martin County this August,...
© 2016 Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. Learn about careers at Cox Media Group
This subscriber-only site gives you exclusive access to breaking news, in-depth coverage, exclusive interactives and bonus content.
You can read 4 free articles of your choice a month that are only available on myPalmBeachPost.com.