Thomson Reuters Lipper announces CPFIS – included funds increase 6.22% in Q3 2016
FCA: Customers to be shown how much they could gain from shopping around for an annuity
Up to £7 Billion of UK wealth to be created next year from investment in early-stage companies
ANZ and ACCC reach settlement over Singapore submissions for Malaysian Ringgit derivatives trading
BTCC (originally founded in 2011 as BTCChina) the company behind the longest-running bitcoin exchange worldwide, it is worth noting this week launched a new BTC/USD exchange that the company says was designed in close collaboration with leading bitcoin traders.
The new exchange features industry-leading rates and a multi-tier referral program to maximize passive income.
The new exchange is geared for dedicated traders, with FIX APIs, a fast trading engine, and a unique multi-tier referral program, in which clients can get up to 33% of referees’ trading fees.
Notably, instead of reducing fees for liquidity providers like most bitcoin exchanges do, the BTCC USD Exchange maker-taker model actually pays makers — customers who place limit orders that add to the bid or ask in the order book — 0.05% of the order’s value.
BTCC USD Exchange is the only bitcoin spot exchange that pays traders for adding liquidity to the order book.
Gain Capital Q3 Revenues down 33%, $5 million loss, October volumes lowest since 2013
Bitcoin exchange Coinbase ends Canadian Dollar support as Canada partner Vogogo shuts payments business
CySEC close to issuing ban on Retail Forex deposit bonuses – LeapRate Exclusive
Thomson Reuters Lipper announces CPFIS – included funds increase 6.22% in Q3 2016
FCA: Customers to be shown how much they could gain from shopping around for an annuity
CySEC close to issuing ban on Retail Forex deposit bonuses – LeapRate Exclusive
LeapRate is an independent research and advisory firm, specialized in covering the world of Forex trading. We are followed by hundreds of thousands of traders, investors and other FX industry participants via our website, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, RSS and Email Newsletter.
Gain Capital Q3 Revenues down 33%, $5 million loss, October volumes lowest since 2013…NewsSome rough numbers from retail forex broker Gain Capital Holdings Inc (NYSE:GCAP). Gain Capital, which operates the Forex.com retail and GTX institut…
PsyQuation adds latest forex broker in OANDANewsIn the wake of signing up FX broker partners Pepperstone, IC Markets, Global Prime and AvaTrade in June upon their launch and ASIC regulated USGFX in…