Bitcoin payment service provider BitPay has launched its latest advancement—a full-featured app for purchasing, storing and spending the popular digital currency.
The new app, announced during the Money 20/20 event in Las Vegas, will allow bitcoin to be converted to dollars via an integrated BitPay Visa prepaid debit card, according to a Nasdaq report. Visa is currently the only debit card used by bitcoin users across the United States.
BitPay’s new app promises to give users “full control over their funds at all times through device-based private keys, backup protocol and multi-device authentication.” Current services normally require users to maintain their bitcoin in company-managed accounts, making them vulnerable to security breaches and hacks.
BitPay CEO Stephen Pair said the app provides a “new way to bring more users and companies into the bitcoin ecosystem.”
“This app is built on years of work spent refining the bitcoin payment experience with BitPay merchants and building a more secure bitcoin wallet with the Copay platform,” BitPay Marketing and Communications Manager, James Walpole, told Bitcoin Magazine. “We think we’ve been able to answer one of the core problems that have locked new users out of bitcoin: how to offer a beginner-friendly experience that doesn’t sacrifice security. This app is a way to get everything you need to start right with bitcoin, without trusting your money to a third party that can be hacked.”
Bitpay, which claims to be the world’s largest bitcoin payment processor, recently made the headlines when it announced that it had helped NetBet become the first online gambling operator licensed by the UK Gambling Commission (UKGC) to offer bitcoin deposit and withdrawal options to its online sports betting and casino customers.
The company said NetBet opted to include Bitcoin payment options to better serve the UK’s growing digital currency user base and to offer customers the peace of mind that comes with freedom from online payment fraud. Given the relative novelty of Bitcoin in the UK online gambling marketplace, Bitpay said it worked closely with NetBet to ensure its new payment option met all UKGC requirements.
The price of bitcoin rose to $685.23 on Thursday morning, with a trade volume of $14.26 million.
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
Chinese online sports lottery operator 500.com has taken a controlling stake in a social poker business in an attempt to diversify its currently non-existent revenue stream.
On Friday, 500.com announced that it had taken a 51% stake in Qufan Internet Technology Inc. and Shenzhen Qufan Internet Technology Co. Ltd, which collectively operate a mobile social poker platform.
500.com says the transaction, which will cost RMB 110.5m (US $16m), is subject to certain unspecified conditions. The company didn’t offer any guidance for what type of boost this acquisition might provide to 500.com’s bottom line.
The Nasdaq-listed 500.com is desperate to show investors some capacity to generate revenue, having now gone six straight quarters without a single penny from online lottery operations following Beijing’s March 2015 decision to ‘temporarily’ suspend online sales after uncovering widespread fraud by provincial lottery administrators.
Investors will likely be hoping 500.com’s latest acquisition proves more permanent that its purchase last December of Zhejiang Shangmeng Technology Limited Company, which operates the Sumpay.cn online payment processor. 500.com sold the company in May, and while it realized a tidy profit on the quick turnaround, it didn’t inspire investor confidence in 500.com’s long-term prospects.
Beijing has been typically cryptic regarding when the 20-months-and-counting ‘temporary’ online suspension might be lifted. In May, five government ministries issued a joint notice detailing steps that needed to be taken in order to ensure future online activity would be property scrutinized, but the government has yet to take any demonstrable public action toward achieving those aims.
500.com isn’t alone in eyeing social gaming as a diversification lifeline. Casino and slots operator Entertainment Gaming Asia has been promising to unveil its new ‘Pan-Asian’ social casino platform since March. Earlier this month, the company reported that it was still “testing the platform in certain markets to assess its potential as a provider to long-term earnings.’
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
The CalvinAyre.com media group is based in Antigua in the West Indies with teams in London, Manila and Vancouver covering the global gambling industry.
Along with ensuring fair coverage of the gambling industry we highlight the great work of the Calvin Ayre Foundation.