IRS Scolded for Being Slow on Bitcoin Audit Policies By Adam Hayes, CFA | November 15, 2016 — 2:40 PM EST
The IRS has agreed to a major cryptocurrency strategy overhaul following a scathing audit by the US Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA). This comes as digital currencies such as Bitcoin become increasingly popular. The accompanying report states that, “None of the IRS operating divisions have developed any type of compliance initiatives or guidelines for conducting examinations or investigations specific to tax noncompliance related to virtual currencies.” (See also: Is Bitcoin Legal in the U.S.?)
According to industry news outlet Brave New Coin, the recent audit reprimands the IRS for it’s lack of action even after establishing a dedicated Virtual Currency Issue Team, and issuing Virtual Currency Guidance for taxpayers to follow, including that virtual currencies should be treated as property and not currency for tax purposes. “There has been little evidence of coordination between the responsible functions to identify and address, on a program level, potential taxpayer noncompliance issues for transactions involving virtual currencies,” the report reads. (For an in-depth look at current IRS guidelines for Bitcoin, see: Bitcoin IRS Tax Guide For Individual Filers)
Because Bitcoin transactions are semi-anonymous, it is possible for people to use the digital currency to avoid paying taxes or to launder money. Even with existing guidelines in place they've been hard to enforce and many individuals have simply chosen not to follow them. Some businesses, on the other hand, are increasingly in want to adhere to regulation in order to legitimize the use of Bitcoin in everyday transactions. The TIGTA recommends that the IRS coordinate all its divisions to conform to a new "virtual currency strategy" and must implement the appropriate changes by September of 2017. (See also: Are There Taxes on Bitcoin?)
After setting up some preliminary guidelines for Bitcoin, it appears that the IRS has not followed through with enforcing or clarifying these rules. As such, the US Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration issued a harsh report railing against the IRS's handling of virtual currencies, recommending changes be made no later than September of 2017.
Bitcoin is still so new that countries are struggling to make legislation catch up with technology. Some nations are more open to virtual currency than others.
Coders created Bitcoin to be decentralized and independent of governments and banks. Authorities are still struggling to create a legal framework.
Investopedia explains the development of the Bitcoin digital currency system and the risks associated with using and investing in it.
Japan is finally looking to drop tax levied on the virtual currency, which would trim the costs for buyers as well as relieve exchanges from the administrative burden related to taxation.
We look at ways to trade forex with bitcoin and the pitfalls in doing so.
A look at the reasons behind the recent spectacular surge in bitcoin prices.
ETFs offer a cost-effective, safe and hassle-free way to invest and trade bitcoins as stocks, without worrying about the security of digital wallets.
Learn how an investment of $100 in bitcoin in 2011 would have performed over the years, and find out what your purchasing power would have been for each year.
Discover the market dynamics behind bitcoin's latest price recovery in late 2015 and why its underlying value is expected to remain strong in 2016.
DICTIONARY: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q
Articles Terms Videos Guides Slideshows FAQs Calculators Chart Advisor Stock Analysis Stock Simulator FXtrader Exam Prep Quizzer Net Worth Calculator
© 2016, Investopedia, LLC. Feedback All Rights Reserved Terms Of Use Privacy Policy