FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
WorldCoinIndex has announced the release of a new blockchain market data resource platform, which offers reliable, real-time price information and the latest news updates for over 400 listed cryptocurrencies to the global cryptocurrency community.
The platform allows users to access a wide range of data points from over 35 different cryptocurrency exchanges and track cryptocurrency prices in all major fiat currencies such as USD, euro and yuan.
On the website, the cryptocurrencies are ranked depending on their 24-hour trading volume. By clicking on any cryptocurrency, users will be able to view charts, various exchanges with details of trading volume and price, along with social media feeds such as links to recent tweets and Reddit posts.
Launched in 2014, WorldCoinIndex aims to simplify the process of picking the right exchange at the right time. The platform has gradually expanded its list of cryptocurrency information offering by adding new tradable cryptocurrencies and functionalities on a regular basis. For the index formula, WorldCoinIndex uses an average weighted price of all cryptocurrencies across all the supported exchanges.
As bitcoin is currently the most popular and widely used cryptocurrency, the Bitcoin Price Index on WorldCoinIndex serves as a base for all other cryptocurrency price indexes, such as the Ethereum price index. According to the official announcement, the Bitcoin price index calculates each market individually.
“The recent upgrades allow WorldCoinIndex to deliver real-time live stream price information. Processing real-time quotes are important for the cryptocurrency market, that is finally catching up to the standards of fiat stock and fx markets. For traders, real-time quotes can make a difference as even the smallest time discrepancy between a provided quote and the real-time situation can change a profitable trade into a loss”, the announcement reads.
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
294m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
294m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
294m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
295m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
295m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
FxWirePro: AUD/NZD bulls in intermediated trend rebuild positive momentum, major trend drives in non-directional, upswings implied by interest rate
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...more
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more