Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
The Russian payments solution company, WebMoney has announced Bitcoin support to its merchant purses. All Bitcoin payments to be automatically converted and deposited to respective fiat wallets...
WebMoney, the Moscow-based Russian online payment solution platform has announced support for Bitcoin. The new feature enables merchants to accept Bitcoin payments from customers who are not signed up on WebMoney.
The latest addition, which was launched by the company earlier this week, enables merchants that use “Merchant WebMoney” service to accept payments without having to go through multiple steps, like in the previous version. Earlier, merchants were able to accept Bitcoin on a dedicated X-Purse online wallet. But now they can accept the digital currency on their respective Z-Purse for US Dollar; R-Purse for Russian Ruble and U-Purse for Ukrainian Hryvnia.
Whenever a customer chooses to pay with Bitcoin, an equivalent in the respective fiat currency will be credited to the linked purse. This way, merchants can offer an additional payment option without having to worry about any integration hassles. The inclusion of digital currency support comes at the time when the country’s cryptocurrency regulatory environment hangs in a balance.
Recently, the Russian Finance Ministry announced that it will be reviewing the current cryptocurrency draft law in consultation with experts in the field. But other government bodies continue to crack down on digital currencies. A few weeks ago, Local Bitcoins — the leading peer to peer cryptocurrency exchange platform was banned in the country.
While the Russian financial sector is quite averse to cryptocurrencies, the central bank and other banking and financial institutions are more open to its underlying technology. The Russian banking consortium is currently working on developing distributed ledger based solutions for its operations.
Amidst the uncertainty, WebMoney is currently testing waters. If it is successful, then we can expect more companies to start supporting Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies as alternative modes of payment in the country.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.