Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
So that’s another day done in the bitcoin price markets, and the time has come for us to take stock of action throughout the day and see where we can use this action in tonight’s strategy. Things got a little slow overnight, and those that read this morning’s analysis will be aware that we used some slightly longer term levels to set up against the markets this morning, in anticipation of waiting out price action a little bit until we saw some volatility and – more importantly, we got some action we could trade on a breakout.
So, with this in mind, and moving forward in to tonight’s session, let’s take a look at what we are going for, and where we are aiming to get in and out of the markets according to our intraday strategy this evening.
As always, take a quick look at the chart below to get an idea of what is on and where we are looking to place our key levels. It’s a five-minute candlestick chart with our range in focus overlaid.
As the chart shows, the range we are targeting is defined by in term support to the downside at 626 and in term resistance to the upside at 632. Price did exactly what we wanted it to, and broke through our support today to allow us in for a nice short term downside profit.
Now with these two levels, we are going to look for a close above resistance to validate an immediate upside target of 638, and conversely, a close below support to put us short towards 620 flat. A stop loss on both positions just the other side of the entry will ensure that we are taken out of the trade in the event of a bias reversal.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.