Article by Nick Cawley Posted on October 6, 2016 11:40 GMT Banking, Bitcoin, Tech
With financial markets currently watching the turmoil in the European banking system, and with Deutsche Bank’s problems to the fore, does bitcoin provide the safety investors require in times of distress?
According to a recent CoinDesk feature, any ratcheting up of the current problems in the financial may prove a boost for the digital currency as investors reject traditional fiat currencies.
“The capital markets have awakened to bitcoin as a disaster hedge,” writes analyst Chris Burniske, blockchain products lead for investment manager ARK Invest.
“The digital currency doesn’t correlate with other asset classes, an aspect that may make it more attractive in times of uncertainty,” wrote Burniske, adding,
“Depending on how people feel about Deutsche Bank’s future prospects, they may choose to hedge themselves from the more traditional markets by using bitcoin.”
But are investors truly ready to use crypto-currencies, including Bitcoin, as a hedge against global systemic contagion when the sector has itself had a few high-profile problems.
In June this year, ethereum start-up company DAO announced that it had been hacked and around $55 million worth of ethers were stolen, sending the price spinning lower. A sharp sell-off was also seen in big-brother rival bitcoin with charts showing losses of around $100 per coin.
And in August this year, the price of bitcoin fell sharply after Hong Kong-based exchange Bitfinex said that it had discovered that nearly 120,000 bitcoins, worth around $65 million, had been stolen.
Another risk for bitcoin holders, compared to traditional banking is the fact there is no depositor’s insurance to absorb the loss, even though many exchanges act like virtual banks.
A recent Reuters article on the cyber-security threat to crypto-currency exchanges highlighted that not only does that approach cast the cybersecurity risk in stark relief, “but it also exposes the fact that bitcoin investors have little choice but to do business with undercapitalized exchanges that may not have the capital buffer to absorb these losses the way a traditional and regulated bank or exchange would.”
If you’re new to financial market trading, click on this link for plenty of useful educational material
SHARE Share on FacebookShare on Twitter Share on Google+Share on LinkedinShare by email
Here's the latest financial, corporate and economic news you need to know about
The plunge in sterling broke a few important chart levels on the downside and leaves the pound looking vulnerable to further weakness over the next few months, warn analysts.
Troubled Hanjin Shipping will wind down its European business as demand for its services on the Asia-Europe route has collapsed, Bloomberg reported on Monday.
US lawmakers are asking questions about AT&T's mega deal to buy Time Warner.
Brexit is still casting a shadow over sterling, but its bounce back could be dazzling, says News.Markets forex columnist Nickolas Hastings.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Read More