The SEC is seeking more public feedback on the proposed ETF, which would be the first to track the digital currency
Tyler Winklevoss, left, and Cameron Winklevoss during TechCrunch Disrupt in New York City in May 2015.
The Securities and Exchange Commission late Wednesday declined to make a ruling on a bid to launch what would be the first exchange-traded fund that exclusively tracks the digital currency bitcoin. The regulator said it was instead seeking additional public feedback on the proposal.
The decision is the latest delay for Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, whose proposed ETF is designed to trade baskets of shares tied to the digital commodity. The twin brothers have been among the most public advocates for a bitcoin ETF, having first announced plans for one in 2013. The pair also run both WinkDex, a bitcoin price index, and Gemini, a bitcoin custodian and exchange.
Read: Here’s one easy way to get exposure to bitcoin ahead of the Winklevoss ETF
The SEC’s request for additional feedback follows earlier public comments that debated the stability of bitcoin, which has been notoriously volatile in price, as well as any potential conflict of interest between the proposed ETF and Gemini.
“The Commission requests that interested persons provide written submissions of their views, data, and arguments with respect to the issues identified above, as well as any other concerns they may have with the proposal,” the SEC wrote in a filing.
According to SEC rules, those who want to provide feedback have 21 days from the Oct. 12 publication of the document to do so. Responses to the feedback can be filed 35 days after that.
The Bitcoin Investment Trust GBTC, -1.94% was volatile on Thursday, moving between a drop of 1% and a gain of 1%. The trust trades on the over-the-counter market and operates as a private, open-ended trust that invests solely in bitcoin. The value of the trust’s shares are entirely derived from price moves in bitcoin.
10 of the prettiest towns in the U.S. where you can retire reasonably well
Apple nabs obscene share of smartphone profit thanks to Samsung’s Note 7 debacle
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
@carolrealini TIL; I didn’t know there were currency based ETF. Just seems like a scheme to collect management fees vs participate in BTC?
Melania Trump may be right: Moving in middle of school year could mess up kids
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.