Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/16/2016 - Bulls Won't Give Up! - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Bitcoin price appears to have chosen to take the northbound route and is waiting for more bulls to sustain the climb.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Bitcoin price is establishing a new uptrend, forming an ascending channel visible on its 1-hour chart.
In addition, price seems to have broken above the symmetrical consolidation pattern illustrated in an earlier article, signaling further upside.
Bitcoin is still testing an area of interest for the time being and technical indicators are giving mixed signals once more.
Bitcoin price appears to have chosen to take the northbound route and is waiting for more bulls to sustain the climb. 
The 100 SMA is below the 200 SMA on this time frame, hinting that the path of least resistance is to the downside. However, these moving averages have been oscillating so this might merely be indicative of consolidation for now. Also, the 200 SMA is holding as dynamic support for the time being and an upward crossover might be due.
Stochastic is on the move down to show that sellers are in control of bitcoin price action, but the oscillator is nearing the oversold region to indicate that bearish pressure is exhausted. RSI is also heading south so price could follow suit and make a test of the 100 SMA dynamic support.
Note that bitcoin price is already testing the ascending channel support around $715 and that this lines up with an area of interest that has been holding as either support or resistance, depending on the trend.
Bitcoin price has shrugged off the recent weakness as traders are reestablishing their long positions. Yuan weakness has been in play so far this week when the government set the trading range lower again, leading Chinese investors to hedge against their local holdings once more and pushing bitcoin higher across the board.
However, dollar bulls are also putting up a fight since retail sales data from the US has been stronger than expected for October while the previous month saw upgrades. This could keep the Fed on track towards tightening in December, especially if this week’s CPI and PPI readings beat forecasts. Keep in mind that Yellen’s testimony on Thursday could ultimately make or break these trends.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Sarah has been involved in the cryptocurrency space since the very beginning. Having stumbled across well hidden discussions in early forums she immersed herself in the industry, and is now a leading author and consultant for a range of bitcoin companies. She loves DASH and mathematics. View all posts by Sarah Jenn
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.