Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Bitcoin Press Release: The Bitcoin casino platform, BitCasino.io has added 120 new game titles from Pragmatic Play to boost its game portfolio.
BitCasino.io has bolstered its online casino portfolio with more than one hundred new games from Pragmatic Play. Under the deal, BitCasino.io will integrate 120 HTML5 titles from Pragmatic’s game library, giving its players access to titles such as Beowulf, Lucky Dragons and Go! Monkey.
The agreement means that the Bitcoin casino site, which is powered by the CoinGaming platform now offers its players in excess of 1,000 different casino games.
“We are thrilled to be adding more than one hundred titles from Pragmatic Play to our online casino game portfolio,”
“We believe the new games will be a big hit with our players in Europe, Asia and beyond, and will help bring new customers to our site,” 
Pragmatic Play’s content joins the ever-growing BitCasino.io games portfolio, which features titles from a number of leading suppliers including Microgaming, NetEnt, and Betsoft. As part of the deal, the new Pragmatic games will also be available on BitCasino.io’s sportsbook partner, Sportsbet.io.
“We are delighted Bitcasino.io has chosen to integrate our thrilling games into its innovative Bitcoin platform. We are very proud of the games we have developed and launched, and believe they will be thoroughly enjoyed by their players,”
Pragmatic Play is one of the fastest growing providers of mobile and desktop digital casino games for the online gaming industry. Containing unique in-house content of over 150 proven slot games for mobile and desktop, the Pragmatic Play games library is defined by its mantra of innovation and dedication to shaping the online gaming industry.
BitCasino.io is the world’s first legally licensed and regulated online Bitcoin casino gaming and sportsbook platform. The brand operates under the License No. 1668/JAZ issued to Curacao eGaming, authorized and regulated by the government of Curacao. It offers more than 1,000 casino games, live dealer casino table games, dice, baccarat, and lotto, as well as tens of thousands of sporting events monthly via its partner betting site, Sportsbet.io. Both brands are powered by a proprietary platform provided by CoinGaming.io.
BitCasino.io’s team of dedicated staff provides 24/7 live chat support ensuring the friendliest service to players from over 140 countries.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.