Safello acquires ICBIT and appoints founder as new CTO » Brave New Coin
Two of the oldest bitcoin services have merged, helping to grow a popular bitcoin buying and selling service into a wider exchange platform featuring margin trading. Swedish-based Safello announced the acquisition of BT Technology Inc.’s assets, including the ICBIT futures exchange platform.
As part of the acquisition, ICBIT’s founder and CEO Aleksey Bragin, is assuming the role of  Safello Chief Technology Officer. Bragin is also President of the ReactOS Foundation and a lecturer at the Moscow State Technical University. His first task will be overseeing the integration of his old technology into the new platform, and then further grow Safello's offering.
"In Safello we found a partner and a home for our technology. I am very excited to bring our expertise to Safello and continue development of our platform under the Safello brand. I am confident in Safello becoming a global leader in the blockchain and cryptocurrency market."
Having launching late in 2011, the Russian ICBIT was the very first bitcoin exchange to offer futures contracts. 12000 customers executed 11.6 million trades on the platform before it closed in March. The service let users trade anonymously, skipping the identification process required for AML/KYC requirements, which eventually led to it’s closure.
The exchange offered classic bitcoin trading for both dollars and rubles, and margin trading on a variety of futures products, such as BTC/USD, BTC/LTC, a unique Bitcoin Difficulty contract, and a classic S&P500 index. With no AML/KYC processing, there was no way to withdraw funds in dollars, or to US accounts. The company took a flat fee of 0.005 BTC per bitcoin from each contract.
ICBIT was widely cited in the mainstream press in 2013 as the only platform offering margin trading, including features on CNN, Yahoo Finance, Bloomberg, Wired, and Businessweek.
Although it was one of the only exchange platforms to survive that long without being hacked, it was often criticized for several reasons. Low liquidity was often an issue, and scams were were simplified by the anonymous nature of trades. However, there wasn’t a centralized hot wallet holding several users’ bitcoins, and the site was considered extremely secure for its time.
Newer margin-trading exchanges like Bitfinex, which launched in 2014, didn’t have the same liquidity problems and quickly overtook ICBIT. A rebranded ICBIT site, called Orderbook.net, was subsequently issued a cease and desist notice from CFTC at the beginning of March, and US citizens were no longer able to trade options there legally. The site had closed by May, having paid all account holders in full.
“Company assets (trading engine, web frontend, auxillary utilities, premium domain name orderbook.net, original domain name icbit.se) might be considered for sale.”
Safello launched in July 2013, with the goal to bring user-friendly, AML/KYC compliant bitcoin buying and selling service in the European market. The Swedish company started with only US$30,000 from private investors, and was among the first services to allow people to buy and sell bitcoin quickly with euros, sterling, and kronor. The site claims to have tens of thousands of customers, having traded over 100 million bitcoins.
A seed funding round of $600,000 in February 2014 helped the startup expand, and it has become the most popular way to buy bitcoin in the Swedish and German markets. The startup was subsequently chosen by Barclay’s bank to attend the Spring 2015 Techstars accelerator.
Safello and Everledger were the only bitcoin and blockchain technology companies out of ten in that session. The thirteen-week networking, mentoring, and development program for startups was focused on fintech innovation breakthroughs.
In May 2015, Safello ran a successful crowdfunding campaign backed by Barry Silbert’s Digital Currency Group, raising €629,949 (US$685,770) from 152 investors. The funds were earmarked for further expansion across Europe, and the company has since purchased the ICBit assets.
"In the last three years, we have had M&A discussions with over eight companies. BT Technology Inc. was the first deal we evaluated that made commercial, technological and operational sense. There are exciting synergies between our platforms that will strengthen our market position and benefit Safello's customer base. To put it simply, it was a no-brainer."
Walmart, IBM and Tsinghua University to use a blockchain for food supply chain tracking in China
Retail giant Walmart, IBM and Tsinghua University are collaborating to improve the way food is tracked, transported and sold across China, using blockchain technology. The project creates, “A new model for food traceability, supply chain transparency and auditability using IBM Blockchain based on the open source Linux Foundation Hyperledger Project fabric,” and coincides with the opening of a new Walmart Food Safety Collaboration Center in Beijing.
“By harnessing the power of blockchain technology designed to generate transparency and efficiency in supply chain record-keeping, this work aims to help enhance the safety of food on the tables of Chinese consumers.”
"China’s food safety challenges are well known,” states the Brookings Institution. From melamine-tainted milk to gutter oil, fake eggs, and contaminated strawberries, "exposés of unsafe foods have become all too common.” Pew Research Center shows a staggering 71 percent of Chinese people considered food safety to be a serious problem, “Serious concerns about food safety have nearly tripled since 2008.”
Many Chinese authorities have since developed new regulations and national food safety standards, such as the China Food and Drug Administration. A New Food Safety Law came into effect last October that strengthens regulation, and enhances oversight along the supply chain. "It is considered to be the most stringent Food Safety Law ever passed in China," stated the EU SME Centre, a European Union initiative supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in China.
China is also shifting its focus from supervision and inspection at ports, towards manufacturers in the country of origin. Dr. Martina Gerst, an EU SME Centre Market Access Advisor, explained, “More documentation and recordings of foreign manufacturer credentials, as well as inspection and testing of food imports for exporters are required.”
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang has since announced a zero tolerance policy for food safety failings. Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli said that China has made some progress in terms of food safety, although the country is still prone to frequent food safety problems. “It will require continued efforts and management for some time,” the Vice-Premier said, while calling for a scientific and exhaustive food safety management system.
"China needs to innovate procedures and increase efforts to improve the supervision of food production and sales to ensure safety [...] The government, producers and other parties concerned should all be held responsible for safeguarding food safety, which concerns everyone’s health."
Rebecca Migirov, Head of Communications at blockchain software technology company ConsenSys, explained how blockchain technology disintermediates the supply chain last March. Blockchain technology can help verify the origins of a given food product, Migirov said, “Everything from the identities of producers and methods of production to the health and history of the soil (or air or water) a piece of produce was grown in.”
Venture Capital professional Wilco Schoonderbeek states that blockchain technology has, "Ground-breaking implications" for the Food and Agricultural industry. Last October he explained that the average Food and Agri supply chain is “a heterogenous loosely coupled large-scale network of entities with a minimal degrees of communication and trust between the actors.”
Hundreds of actors, thousands of processes, millions of products and possibly billions of data points are involved. “It is a data hungry industry that, historically, has not been served very well,” Schoonderbeek said.
“Today’s technologies are having a hard time to respond adequately and cost effective. Costs involved are crucial because the margins in the food system are very tight. The blockchain technology removes the need for formally identifying both parties to the transaction thus major cost savings can be achieved.”
IBM asserts that blockchains save time, remove cost, and reduce risks. The technology also increases trust between participants, pinpoints source of compromised food, and reduces unnecessarily recalls, while improving co-ordination in the food supply chain.
IBM also announced its expansion of the Bluemix ecosystem in China on Wednesday. The company has incorporated blockchain, Internet of Things (IoT) and advanced cloud data services into its cloud platform. IBM and 21Vianet, a leading Internet data center services provider, brought the cloud platform to China in 2015.
IBM Research – China is developing blockchain solutions for financial services and the Internet of Things tailored to the Greater China local market's requirements. Their research team is dedicated to solving “practical problems with enterprise-grade solutions and to push extensive adoption of blockchain technologies across areas of finance and the Internet of Things.”
“Advanced technology has reached into so many aspects of modern life but it has lagged in food traceability, and in particular in creating more secure food supply chains. Our collaboration with Walmart and Tsinghua University is a step of global significance to change that."
Walmart has a vested interest in China, having started operating in China in 1996. In January 2014, the company was involved in a scandal forcing it to recall donkey meat, a popular snack in some areas of China, after it was found to contain the DNA of other animals such as fox. The company was fined for selling duck meat past its expiry date in 2011.
The company formed a strategic alliance with China's second largest online retailer, JD.com, in June. Walmart nearly doubled its stake in JD.com earlier this month. “We believe this strategic alliance will help us grow e-commerce even faster in China,” a Wal-Mart spokeswoman told the Wall Street Journal.
The company is using the blockchain pilot project to build trust, transparency and efficiency in the food supply chain, and is investing $25 million in food safety research over five years.
"As advocates of promoting greater transparency in the food system for our customers, we look forward to working with IBM and Tsinghua University to explore how this technology might be used as a more effective food traceability solution."
The third partner in the blockchain project is Tsinghua University, a research institution in Beijing. It is one of the nine members of the C9 League, the Chinese version of U.S. Ivy League.
Last April, the University's PBC School of Finance and Huobi, China's leading bitcoin exchange, launched a joint Digital Assets Research initiative. The focus was to understand “how digital innovation is transforming finance and economics for individuals, businesses, governments, and the international system.