FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
South Korea’s financial regulator has revealed plans to introduce regulatory guidelines for digital currency exchanges operating in the country by the first quarter of 2017.
Korea Joongang Daily reported that for this purpose, a task force has been launched by the Financial Services Commission. The task force will hold regular meetings to discuss the regulatory status of digital currency, prepare licensing rules for exchanges, and formulate measures to prevent money laundering and fraud in transactions.
"The government will push for the systematization of digital currency on a full scale in tandem with a global trend in the U.S., Japan and other countries," Yim Jong-yong, chairman of the Financial Services Commission, said in a speech at the 12th Fintech Center Demo Day event (quoted by The Korea Herald).
The Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning currently oversees the registration of bitcoin operators in the country, but offers no financial regulatory framework. In the first meeting, the task force agreed that the sector needs to be regulated, with the commission suggesting that new rules might include strong regulations to prevent illegal use of digital currency exchanges.
“There’s still no legal definition for ‘digital currency.’ We plan to start work by coming up with a legal definition so that we can respond to issues involving tax payment, money laundering, and consumer protection,” an FSC source said, as quoted by the hankyoreh. “We may be presenting the legal definition and specific plans in the fintech development roadmap by the first quarter of next year”.
In addition, the Korean government is also planning to establish a blockchain consortium combining fintech companies and financial institutions, the hankyoreh reported.
In order to foster fintech ecosystem, the government will offer 3 trillion won ($2.65 billion) in financial support over the next three years, Yim said. According to the FSC, these measures make up the “basic direction” of the second-stage fintech development roadmap, which would be unveiled in Q1 2017.
“Where the first-stage fintech development roadmap was focused on removing irrational regulations, the second stage will be focused on redesigning current systems to make them more suited to the fintech environment,” Yim added.
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
505m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
505m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
506m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
506m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
506m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Indian economy to expand below 7 pct this year, further upside in USD/INR likely
GBP/USD likely to be vulnerable to significant bouts of volatility over coming year, says Lloyds Bank
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.