Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Here's a look at our key levels for this morning's session out of Europe in the bitcoin price
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
It is Tuesday morning, and the European markets are about to kick off for the day. As usual, head of the markets, here is a look at how the bitcoin price is open, and how we are going to use this movement to create a strategy for today’s session. First, then, let’s have a quick look at overnight action.
The first thing worth noting is that we finally saw some upside momentum in price last night. For the past couple of months, Christ has pretty much stayed constrained within a tight range of between the very high 500s and the very low 600s. This has limited our trading opportunities somewhat, and has been a little bit frustrating for an intraday perspective. Last night, however, we got a sharp upside move, and price has moved to its highest levels of the quarter so far. We are going to use this break to outline our key levels going forward into this morning’s session, and likely beyond, if we get a period of consolidation.
So, with that in mind, take a look at the chart below to get an idea of where we are looking to get in and out of the markets on any more volatility.
As the chart shows, we are looking at support to the downside at 634, and resistance to the upside at 643. This is plenty wide enough for a range bound strategy, so, long support and short systems, targeting the opposing lHimevels on the entry.
Looking at breakout trades, if Christ breaks below support, we will aim to enter short towards an immediate downside target of 627. A stoploss on the position somewhere in the region of 638 defines risk nicely. Looking north, a close resistance will put us long towards 650.  A stoploss in this one at 640 will enable us to keep on top of our risk.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.