You wouldn’t be alone in not wanting to invest in a new currency that markets itself as “magic internet money” but Bitcoin is rapidly gaining the trust of brick-and-mortar stores and finance moguls outside the echo chamber of the internet. However, growing popularity aside, is it actually possible to do your shopping in the cryptocurrency? Kind of.
While Bitcoin has achieved an almost unimaginable climb from obscurity to mainstream acceptance in the eight years since it was proposed, the currency is still something of a niche payment method. It’s the preferred token of hipster coffee shops and people in developing countries but it’s not something your local corner shop is likely to accept in lieu of fiat currency like dollars and pounds.
Gaming, in all its forms, is arguably the one area that Bitcoin has penetrated the deepest, and iGaming websites such as vegas casino were pioneers in that respect. It makes sense; Bitcoin payments are irreversible, immediate, and private, three factors of value to people who like to play roulette and poker, for example.
The popularity of Bitcoin in the iGaming sector has worked out well for players, as competition between the various gaming companies has created a culture of continued improvement. The biggest challenge facing iGaming companies now is convincing a sceptical audience of the benefits of using Bitcoin, even given the numerous steps required to acquire it, like setting up a wallet and using a currency exchange.
Returning to the point about people in developing countries, Bitcoin is also a global phenomenon that offers an alternative to payment cards with exorbitant interest rates and cross-border fees. The latter point is precisely why Valve’s distribution platform, Steam, recently began accepting Bitcoin – to remove a punitive middleman from purchases.
So, to answer the question in the title, if you’re a PC gamer, you can buy the vast majority of your games with Bitcoin, simply because Steam is central to gaming on home computers, much like Xbox Live is to the Xbox One. The exception is newer EA titles, such as Dragon Age: Inquisition and Battlefield 1, as Origin doesn’t allow players to use Bitcoin.
Gaming marketplace, Kinguin, and IndieGala, a bundle site for independent titles, also accept Bitcoin for their games and other paraphernalia. Humble Bundle, a ‘games for charitable donations’ company, can be a bit picky as far as Bitcoin is concerned, accepting it only as an alternative for US dollar payments.
Gamers using Microsoft systems are spoilt for choice. You can add funds to a Microsoft account with Bitcoin and buy software for any piece of hardware running the company’s operating systems, such as Xbox One and Xbox 360, Lumia phones, PCs, and the Surface tablet. The one exception is that you can’t buy Microsoft’s hardware with Bitcoin.
Finally, PlayStation 4 gamers using Bitcoin have been left out in the rain a little by Sony. However, you can buy gift cards with the currency for the PlayStation Store (and for PlayStation Plus memberships) on sites like eGifter. It’s definitely more of a workaround than a true solution but it’s better than nothing at all.
Cultured Vultures is a community dedicated to helping writers of all experiences and backgrounds having their work seen and read. We like words and we like sharing them.
Author and father; organic, sentient being of Terran origin. Self-publishes novels, watches television, plays games, defecates.
THIS WEEK IN GAMING: Fallout 4 PS4 Mods, Resident Evil 7 Leaks, Titanfall 2 Outrage
FIRST IMPRESSIONS: Kill Strain - If Evolve, LoL & Gears Had a Baby