FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
The latest edition of KPMG and CB Insights report “Pulse of Fintech Q3’16” shows a dip in investments going into blockchain and digital currency startups.
The report anticipates that in the forthcoming quarters, artificial intelligence (AI) will gain more investor attention in addition to RegTech, InsurTech and data and analytics. It also expects fintech areas that have emerged over the past year, particularly blockchain or distributed ledger technology (DLT), may be scrutinized more as investors assess when and if investments will deliver returns.
“Related companies looking for additional funding will need to show real results in order to gain investment”, it said.
According to the report, the blockchain and bitcoin investment activity dropped to $87 million in the third quarter of 2016, from $119 million in the second quarter. The investment peaked in the first quarter when the total investment stood at $153 million.
The number of deals has also declined from 22 in Q1, to 17 in Q3 and 13 in Q3. The top deals in the bitcoin and blockchain space include Ripple with $55 million series B funding, Coinbase with $10.5 million series C-II funding and Brave Software with $4.5 million venture capital funding.
The report said that blockchain technology received a significant amount of attention from VC investors over the past year in North America, with many large financial institutions in the US investing in blockchain-based companies, announcing partnerships to examine blockchain’s potential or moving ahead with proof-of-concept activities. However, it noted that despite all the efforts, the level of blockchain adoption remains limited and that investors are now becoming worried about the results.
“To-date, however, the ability to move blockchain from proof-of-concept to adoption and production has been minimal. While the market is still giving blockchain companies plenty of room to prove themselves, investors are also becoming more concerned about results”, the report said. “Over the next year, investors will make more rationale assessments of where the main use cases associated with fintech are and how long it will be before they are implementable.”
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close below 14.01 targets 14.70 - EconoTimes
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
503m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
503m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
504m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
504m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
504m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Indian economy to expand below 7 pct this year, further upside in USD/INR likely
GBP/USD likely to be vulnerable to significant bouts of volatility over coming year, says Lloyds Bank
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "