Here is the Bank of England Document on the Central Bank Issuing Digital Currency - Crowdfund Insider
Here is the Bank of England Document on the Central Bank Issuing Digital Currency
The advent of digital currencies and blockchain technology has engendered great consternation and interest from policy makers around the world. The concept of bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies may be the next step in fiat currency. Having made the leap from barter to coins and then to paper notes is not the end of it all. Removing the physical quality of money may be just around the corner – and the Bank of England is one institution that is willing to contemplate this profound possibility.
In case you missed it, the Bank of England published a working paper on the “Macroeconomics of Central Bank Issued Digital Currencies”. Effectively the researchers John Barrdear and Michael Kumhof asked “what if” the Bank of England created its own Bitcoin? What, on earth, would that mean for the economy and the rest of the world?
Creating a “central bank digital currency” (CBDC) or a “universally accessible and interest-bearing  central bank liability, implemented via distributed ledgers that competes with bank deposits as medium of exchange” is not that far-fetched.  The technology already exists but this has never been done.  It should be more surprising that more central banks are not considering the same. The rise of private digital currencies has already pulled a certain amount of transactions outside the purview of state banks. The BoE document reviews both the pros and the cons of a CBDC reviewing structural issues, price, output stability and financial stability. Of course one of the biggest benefits for consumers is the potential to reduce the cost of transactions and perhaps cut traditional banks entirely out of the equation.
The BoE white paper is based on the theoretical as not much empirical data exists quite yet. The authors close with more questions than answers. But just posing the question “what if” is enough to get the conversation started.
Deloitte Report: “There is a race to regulate Bitcoin. Is it too soon?”
Unocoin Finds Pre Series-A Pot of Gold, Raises Record Amount for Indian Currency Venture
Game on Bitcoin! Safe Cash Blockchain Handling Up to 25,000 Transactions Per Second
Saving Time and Money through Blockchain Tech: Chain Secures $30M Series B from Industry Behemoths Visa, Nasdaq, Citi Ventures
This entry was posted in Global, Politics and tagged bank of england, bitcoin, blockchain, crypto-currency, digital currency, research. Bookmark the permalink.
Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond's Autumn Statement: Further Support for Business Including Fintech
German Finance Ministry Publishes Report on Fintech: Very High Growth in Recent Years
asia australia california canada charity china crowdcube equity europe event fca film fintech france games gaming germany gofundme hardware health indiegogo jobs act kickstarter lending club london marketplace medical music new zealand p2p peer to peer perspective real estate regulation a regulations research sec seedrs singapore tactics technology title III uk united kingdom video games