Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
FSC plans to raise policy loan support to $USD879 million from $USD439 million.
The only moral way to break the rigid finance laws is, to reform them. And as it appears, the South Korean government is leaving no stone unturned in doing the same.
The hint comes from Yim Jong-yong, the Chairman of South Korea’s Financial Services Commission (FSC), who recently presented a promising “FinTech development roadmap”. The message read that the commission has removed irrational regulations, and is now focusing to revamp current systems to make room for FinTech technologies.
Yim further disclosed FSC’s plans to raise policy loan support to $USD879 million, from $USD439 million. The double top-up is to be the backbone of South Korea’s plan to develop a Bitcoin-like — and blockchain-based — finance infrastructure in the coming years . The joint research and testing for the implementation of the said plan has already started.
South Korea has maintained a balanced stand when it comes to adopting Bitcoin technology. While the regulators have no specific laws yet for digital currency startups, they have never attempted to hamper their growth. Even in the recent statements by Yim, Bitcoin appears to be more like a technology in dire need of a definition.
But while the South Korean authorities spend time in creating/finding a legal definition for Bitcoin and respond to prevailing issues involving taxation, AML and security, they have ensured the startups remain unaffected from legal hassles, with the help of one “financial regulation test bed” system.
The aforementioned system, as evidenced by a South Korean media house, allows new FinTech startups to test their systems without needing a license. This means that the Bitcoin companies can at least expect to go ahead with initial testing phases, without regulatory burdens. The system further ensures a revamped Know-Your-Customer procedure that would help Bitcoin exchanges.
FSC confirmed that they will be coming out with a full-fledged Bitcoin regulation by the first quarter of 2017.
India-based IT professional Yashu Gola found Bitcoin in 2012, when he was trying to send money to one of his friends in the US. As he quotes, it was “love-at-first-sight” with the mystical work of digital currencies. He left his online advertising job to work as a full-time Bitcoin writer for forex news website ForexMinute.com. Apart from covering the minute-to-minute Bitcoin events, Yashu is also an active Bitcoin trader and analyst.When not working, he is found reading and writing movie scripts, poems and songs. He is also a passionate movie buff View all posts by Gola Yashu
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.