Stolen NSA Cyberweapons Auctioned: Shadow Brokers Wants $6.3 million To Publish Hacking Tools' Password : Tech : iTech Post
Updated Hot Tags Pokemon Sun And Moon Pokemon Go Pokemon Sun And Moon news Apple Pokemon Sun and Moon guide
Stolen NSA Cyberweapons Auctioned: Shadow Brokers Wants $6.3 million To Publish Hacking Tools' Password
This undated photo provided by the National Security Agency (NSA) shows its headquarters in Fort Meade, Maryland.
Anonymous hacker group Shadow Brokers is now threatening to publish the NSA´s hacking tools' password to everyone who pays $6.3 million or 10,000 bitcoins. This action comes weeks after the group complained how nobody was interested in the bidding, wanting the tool for free.
The group who´s claimed responsibility for stealing and leaking powerful cyberweapons believed to be used by cyberteam Equation Group, have been in a contradictory situation, since many experts ended up confirming the legitimacy of the NSA´s hacking tools, most of them capable of skirting enterprise firewalls. However, they also explained that this action is incredibly nonsense, considering the fact that bitcoins are extremely traceable, as reported by Softpedia.
"TheShadowBrokers is being bored with auction so no more auction. Auction off. Auction finish. Auction done. No winners. So who is wanting password? TheShadowBrokers is publicly posting the password when receive 10,000 btc (ten thousand bitcoins). Same bitcoin address, same file, password is crowdfunding. Sharing risk. Sharing reward. Everyone winning." The hacking group told recently in a blog post, in which it also announced to leak a conversation between Bill Clinton and Attorney General Loretta Lynch in an airplane.
According to the International Business Times, Shadow Brokers initially released around 60 percent of the entire cache for free, including zero-day vulnerabilities against Cisco, but failed to garner any response. Apparently, this new offer can also be predestinated to fail, considering the lack of interest that people have showed about NSA´s cyberweapons.
Although the group´s background and it still unknown, four different sources recently told that the NSA think that Russian hackers might be involved. Apparently, these cyber criminals got hold of the exploits after a contractor or even an employee was careless enough to leave them available on a computer. Is very likely that this situation happened about three years ago, after an operation in which the NSA had to use the tools.
Huawei Is Officially The Most Profitable Android Smartphone Brand In The World: Which Has Been The Reason For Its Success?
WikiLeaks Published New Files In Which It Is Revealed The US Involvement In Yemen´s War
World AIDS Day Is On December 1, What Will You Expect In The Event
Pokemon Sun and Moon Guide: Where Is The Name Rater To Change Pokemon's Name Again
Pokemon Sun And Moon Tips And Tricks In 3DS You Probably Don't Know
Super Junior’s Leeteuk Makes Shocking Revelation Of Struggling With Depression; Idol Talks Difficult Life After His Father’s Suicide
'Oh My Geum Bi' Episode 5 Spoilers, Predictions: Geum Bi Plans On Hiding Her Rare Disease From Hwi Chul?
NBA Trade Rumors: Bulls' Jimmy Butler To Be Traded To The Trail Blazers For Al-Farouq Aminu, C.J. McCollum
Samsung Is Giving Away A Free VR Headset Gear Starting On The Thanksgiving Day
South Park Season 20 Episode 9 Will Be Moved Due To Dark Season
Black Friday 2016: NES Classic To Become Available? Where You Can Find It
Lee Min Ho And Suzy Bae's Wedding News Update: Things Have Changed, Stars To Marry Before Signing To Military Service
'Rick & Morty' Season 3 Update: Closer Look At Vin Diesel Casting, Hawaii Adventure And Mr. Meeseeks' Comeback
‘The Legend Of The Blue Sea’ Hit By Another Plagiarism Issue; Lee Min Ho’s Co-Star Jun Ji Hyun Shows Dedication For Mermaid Role
'Legend Of The Blue Sea' Episode 3 Spoilers: Did Jun Ji Hyun Fall For Lee Min Ho’s Character?