In 2011 there were 80million mobile phone gamers in the U.S, a figure that has rapidly proliferated in five years to 180million in 2016. With numbers continuing to swell, the igaming industry is flourishing. Enhanced technology such as tablets and smartphones, and diverse and modernized games like video slots, contribute to the growing popularity of mobile gaming. Bitcoin could be the final piece in the puzzle to make the online gaming sector accessible to everyone.
Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency that started seven years ago as an alternative method for paying for things online. As the online world is theoretically borderless – with people from different countries occupying the same web spaces – it seems logical that there should be a sole internet currency for everyone.
It annuls the need to consider fluctuating exchange rates, it can be used by anyone, anywhere, and it tends to have much lower fees than traditional credit card transactions – about 5.5x lower according to recent estimations.
More businesses are embracing the currency as renowned economists including Barry Eichengreen have speculated that in the near future Bitcoin could become the number one form of online payment. Massive companies like Subway, Microsoft, and WordPress are all now providing customers with the option to pay using Bitcoin, possibly in an attempt to cover all bases or perhaps because they also believe in the e-currency.
The growing popularity of the cryptocurrency has led to the rise of the Bitcoin casino. These are similar to traditional online casinos with the main difference being that the sole betting currency is Bitcoin. 
Because Bitcoin transactions have lower fees, it means that online casinos can pass the savings on to customers in the form of tantalising bonuses and promotions. Another notable thing about Bitcoin casinos is that they house specialised slot games that can only be played with Bitcoin. This helps to attract slot fanatics to try playing with the e-currency. Games like Star Cash, Desert Drag, and Burning Flame provide a different and unique gaming experience for Bitcoin customers.
Online casinos that have already made the transition to Bitcoin payments are predicting a Bitcoin future and trying to get ahead of the competition. With virtual reality (VR) about to change the way people game, Bitcoin could be poised to benefit even further. Exploring VR worlds such as MMORPG settings will bring people together from different parts of the world and effectively create multi-national locations in cyberspace.
For buying things within the games such as character upgrades or weapons, it would be beneficial to have a single currency that everyone can use. Microgaming’s VR Roulette game is a step towards developing VR casinos, and Bitcoin could be an ideal currency to spend in them as well. In theory, players would be exploring the VR setting and carrying their Bitcoin wallets around with them.
The gaming industry has come an astoundingly long way since the days of dropping a coin into a machine and pulling a lever. With virtual top-ups now the norm, Bitcoin is the logical future for the online gaming sector that spans all over the world.
Josh is a professional writer with almost a decade’s worth of experience covering topics in a wide range of industries.
His main areas of interest are technology and sports and he’s fascinated by the gaming and entertainment industry
Russian propoganda campaign reportedly led to the flood of fake news on social media
Ever since Donald Trump went on to an highly unexpected US Presidential elections win, fake news and its rampant propagation on social media has been...
American technology giant Stripe, which enables websites and apps incorporate payments services into their apps via an API and a few lines of code...
Capcom plans on supporting Street Fighter V “as far as 2020 or so,” as was stated by the game’s executive producer, Yoshinori...
Xiaomi isn’t making money on hardware, but reaffirms, that shrinking smart phone sales won’t hit the company
Chinese electronics upstart Xiaomi, has witnessed a sharp drop in its smart phone sales, but the company does not fear as it is of the view that they...
Joining in the rather long list of Health tech startups raising funds this year, is Idea Bubbles. The company has raised Rs. 4.5 crore in its...
The Mobile Wallet collaborates with MatchMove to further grow its footprint in India and SEA
The Mobile Wallet (TMW) is India’s first complete payment solution that strives to make it easy and possible for its users to complete their daily...
TapChief, the PitchOff Season 3 finalist startup which enables users to seek professional advice from industry experts in any domain via a simple...
Ubisoft’s VP of live operations has finally broken her silence regarding the issue of the publisher’s potential hostile takeover by...
Russian propoganda campaign reportedly led to the flood of fake news on social media
Xiaomi isn’t making money on hardware, but reaffirms, that shrinking smart phone sales won’t hit the company
Russian propoganda campaign reportedly led to the flood of fake news on social media
Xiaomi isn’t making money on hardware, but reaffirms, that shrinking smart phone sales won’t hit the company
The go-to place for GIFs online, Giphy gulps in $72 million in funding