Indian bitcoin exchange Coinsecure launches entry-level trading account for global markets - EconoTimes
FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
Coinsecure, an Indian bitcoin exchange, announced the launch of entry-level trading account for international users as well as the Indian market in a move to improve bitcoin liquidity in the Indian market, in the wake of recent demonetization in the country.
The move will help users to sign up on Coinsecure, deposit bitcoin and start trading. Reducing the barrier for entry-level trading will remove the process of having a complete verification to start trading in bitcoin. Users can avail this service at a fee of 0.5% that is lower than the rest of the market. By submitting their KYC, they can withdraw or deposit INR and avail the discounted fee of 0.3%.
“With the global community eyeing the Indian market for a while now, considering the opportunities, this move will help people truly take advantage of arbitrage as well,” the announcement stated.
In addition to the Entry Level Trading Account, Coinsecure has also pushed major updates both on its web platform and Android app. The update eases users to sign up and have the option to manually input the network fee based on the priority of their bitcoin transactions. Users can change the network fee from the default 0.0001 BTC to 0.001 BTC.
“This move will definitely increase the liquidity in India and will also give international users an opportunity to arbitrage from the Indian market. This is a trend we have seen over other global exchanges as well,” Mohit Kalra, the CEO of Coinsecure said, as reported by newsbtc.
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
505m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
505m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
506m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
506m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
506m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Indian economy to expand below 7 pct this year, further upside in USD/INR likely
GBP/USD likely to be vulnerable to significant bouts of volatility over coming year, says Lloyds Bank
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.