Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
The donations received by Bitcoin Unlimited may have come from funds stolen from Kraken a few months ago. Read more..
Bitcoin Unlimited recently made news after it received an unusually large donation of around $500,000 in bitcoins. The donation amount is now mired in controversy after it was claimed to have come from a questionable source.
According to few reports, the donation received by the project were allegedly stolen from Kraken, a leading digital currency exchange. There were unconfirmed reports of Kraken suffering from a security breach that resulted in a theft. While the exact amount of Bitcoin stolen during the incident is not clear, few users tracking the stolen funds on the Bitcoin blockchain believe that it is the same stolen stash which has made its way to Bitcoin Unlimited’s wallets.
A portion of Bitcoin that was donated to Bitcoin Unlimited seems to have followed the same path through coin mixing services as rest of the stolen funds. A Bitcoin taint analysis conducted by one of the Redditor shows the whole transaction tree. The OP, without making any conclusions has put it out there for the community to come to their own conclusion.
The influx of new funds into Bitcoin Unlimited seems to have already been put to good use. The platform has announced the availability of new research funding for new Bitcoin projects. According to the latest blog post by Peter Rizun, the major areas of interest for Bitcoin Unlimited includes
Quality control, including improvement of the documentation process, website improvement and automation of regression testing of releases
Bitcoin Unlimited has been slowly gaining adoption as well, thanks to Bitcoin Core’s snail-paced approach towards scalability of the protocol. Recently, Bitcoin.com Mining Pool started running Bitcoin Unlimited on its mainnet. We may see more mining pools extending their support in the near future.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.