Move suggests investors are moving past a series of high-profile hacks that occurred over the summer
The price of a single coin US:BTCUSD  has climbed above $630 for the first time since August, when reports that hackers had stolen 120,000 bitcoins, then worth more than $65 million, from one of the world’s largest bitcoin exchanges. The theft sent the price of the popular cryptocurrency spiraling lower. At its lowest point, bitcoin had lost $100 in value, though it quickly reversed much of this drop.
The hack at Hong Kong-based Bitfinex, which remains one of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges, followed another high-profile incident in June, when a hacker stole more than 3.5 million ether tokens—worth about $50 million at the time—from an entity known as the DAO. To recover the stolen coins, Ethereum’s developers engineered a controversial software update that recovered the stolen coins by essentially unwinding part of the Ethereum blockchain. Initially created as a vehicle to help crowdfund promising startups building on the Ethereum blockchain, the DAO was dissolved after the hack.
Bitfinex issued a newly created coin called the BFX token as a sort of a placeholder for customers who lost coins during the hack. On Thursday, the exchange announced that it would allow customers to exchange their BFX tokens for a stake in the company, with each coin valued at $1.
Security remains a concern for many investors, as exchanges have proven consistently that they are vulnerable to hackers.
Of course the most prominent example of big security issues in digital currencies occurred in February 2014, when Mt. Gox, once the dominant bitcoin exchange, collapsed after hackers stole millions of customer bitcoins. The news effectively ended the bitcoin speculative bubble of 2013, as the price of a single coin slumped to less than $200, after peaking near $1,200 in November 2013.
10 of the prettiest towns in the U.S. where you can retire reasonably well
Apple nabs obscene share of smartphone profit thanks to Samsung’s Note 7 debacle
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
Here's a way to invest in bitcoin and educate others of it's value: http://coinomia.com/?id=Erich Lehr
Melania Trump may be right: Moving in middle of school year could mess up kids
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.