U.S.-based financial technology start-up Ripple announced on Tuesday its Chief Executive Officer Chris Larsen has decided to step down and will become the company's executive chair.
Larsen said Brad Garlinghouse, the firm's current chief operating officer, will become the new CEO effective Jan. 1.
San Francisco-based Ripple is a provider of blockchain-based cross-border payments technology for banks and has raised more than $90 million in funding from a whole range of investors.
Blockchain technology powers the digital currency bitcoin, enabling data sharing across a network of individual computers. It has gained immense popularity because it can record and track assets across all industries.
"I have been in fintech for 20 years and I am kind of looking forward to not having the day-to-day responsibility the CEO takes," Larsen said in an interview with Reuters.
"I am trying to get the right balance between Ripple and spending time with my two young boys. But I couldn't be more happy for Brad, about where we are and how Brad has gotten us here, and what he would be able to do for us going forward."
Larsen earlier co-founded E-Loan in 1996, one of the first online mortgage lending platforms, whose business grew to a $1 billion company in terms of market value by 2000. In 2006, Larsen also co-founded Prosper Marketplace, the first U.S. peer-to-peer lending marketplace.
Garlinghouse, on the other hand, was previously the CEO of Hightail, a cloud service company that lets users send, receive, digitally sign and synchronize files. Before Hightail, he was the president of applications and commerce at AOL, and a senior vice president at Yahoo.
"We're going to stay the course at Ripple," Garlinghouse said in an interview. "This the appropriate time to do this because we have a lot of tailwind and momentum on our side. We're not expecting any sharp turns one way or the other."
But one area the company will focus would be the global payments steering group, Garlinghouse said. In September, Ripple announced the creation of the first interbank group for global payments based on distributed financial or blockchain technology.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Santander, UniCredit, Standard Chartered, Westpac Banking Corporation, and Royal Bank of Canada are the founding members of the network, known as the Global Payments Steering Group. CIBC will also join as a member of the group.
Online spending by U.S. bargain hunters climbed to above $1 billion by Thanksgiving evening, according to Adobe Digital Index, surging almost 14 percent from a year ago and reflecting a broader trend away from brick-and-mortar shopping.
ZURICH/FRANKFURT U.S. healthcare company Johnson & Johnson said on Friday it was in preliminary talks with Actelion about a potential takeover of Europe's largest biotech firm, currently valued at about $20 billion.
Exclusive: Billionaire green activist Steyer vows to battle Trump, says money not an issue
NFV se está convirtiendo en una realidad comercial y operativa: ¿está preparado para esto?
Para los Amantes de la Música Clásica, llegó la nueva forma de disfrutarla
Reuters is the news and media division of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface
Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
Site Feedback Corrections Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines AdChoices Terms of Use Privacy Policy