The worldwide development network for the United Nations is pursuing a series of blockchain-focused projects.
Through its Alternative Financing Lab, an effort launched last year, the United Nations Development Programme is looking into applications in microfinance, remittances and connected vehicles, among others.
That work was quietly detailed last month in a UNDP blog post, penned by members of the Alternative Financing Lab. The lab said it was partnering with developers in Serbia and Moldova, among other regions, on blockchain projects, and indicated that it planned to expand these efforts in the months ahead.
Of particular interest, according to the post, is the use of blockchain for exchanging funds.
“When it comes to UNDP’s emergency response in employment, we have a hunch that blockchain could provide a more effective way of transferring and tracking funds, and shifting our strategy in line with what is happening in the field – this is a work in progress though but one we’re excited about.”
Last month’s blog post isn’t the first time the UNDP has expressed its interest in the technology for use in cash transfers. In May, the organization said that it was looking for partners to develop a bitcoin-based money delivery system.
“The global development field needs access to an entity or system that is scalable, secure, flexible, cost efficient and sustainable in the long run,” it said at the time.
Nor is the the lab the only part of the UN’s global community that is looking at possible blockchain applications. Earlier this year, the United Nations Children’s Fund began soliciting pitches for related projects, and in August announced that it was hunting for a point person on blockchain.
A UN organization focused on criminal justice issues organized a meeting on bitcoin and digital currencies this past summer in Uganda.
The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has invested in a South African blockchain startup as part of a broader technology innovation push.
Blockchain is set to be discussed during a meeting at the United Nations today centered on sustainable development.
The United Nations Children's Fund is seeking a software developer and consultant who can help shape the organization's blockchain strategy.
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact