Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Although this is a very innovative concept that may help Bitcoin grow on a global scale, its success remains to be determined. The whole concept hinges on using a proprietary browser, and very few consumers will be willing to make the switch.
There has been a lot of speculation regarding the up-and-coming Brave browser. With a very innovative business model and Bitcoin integration, this piece of software can shake up online advertising like never before. A new version of the Brave browser lets users contribute to websites directly while blocking ads. The first payouts are scheduled to occur later today.
Many cryptocurrency enthusiasts are looking forward to the Brave browser. Not only will this tool reduce the number of annoying ads during a browsing session, but it also integrates Bitcoin.Brave lets site visitors contribute financially to the sites they visit while blocking their advertisements entirely.
The payment option was integrated roughly a month ago today, and the first websites will receive their payout later today. For now, it remains unknown how many sites will get a payment, or what type of numbers we are talking about. Rest assured no one will become rich overnight from having people use the Brave browser to read or view their content.
Depending on how successful the Brave browser will be, this could herald a big change for online advertising. Most site owners use Google Adsense or paid banner ads on their site to help cover operating expenses. For the visitor, this is a major annoyance, as it can ruin the whole browsing experience. Contributing to content creators directly is a more favorable option.
To allow for this peer-to-peer contribution, the Brave browser had to use a global payment option. Card payments were not an option, due to high fraud rates. Bitcoin is the only logical choice, as it is the single global currency in the world today. Due to its low transaction fees, creators will receive the full contribution in a frictionless manner.
Although this is a very innovative concept that may help Bitcoin grow on a global scale, its success remains to be determined. The whole concept hinges on using a proprietary browser, and very few consumers will be willing to make the switch. Solving the ad blocking problem will require more than just a new browser. The inclusion of Bitcoin payments is a step in the right direction to please both content creators and site visitors.
It remains unknown if and when the Brave browser team will reveal statistics regarding the first payouts. It seems likely very little money will be changing hands, as the project is still in the early stages. Moreover, not everyone will opt to pay creators directly either, while still trying to get rid of any advertisements.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.