Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Well, there we go, another week of trading the bitcoin price nearly over. As we said this morning, it’s been a great week for our breakout strategy. When tings move like they have done this week, it’s difficult not to profit from the volatility. All we needed to do was set up our key levels and wait. That’s all we ever really do, but sometimes (when price action is choppy, for example) it doesn’t work out as simple as that.
Anyway, we’ve got a US afternoon session to go before the weekend kicks off, and we’re going to see if we can close out on a high. Things didn’t trade so well today, but we didn’t lose anything, and when you’re heading into the close of a week like this that’s just as important as taking anything out of the markets.
So, with this said, and as we look ahead to the weekend, here’s what we are targeting in the bitcoin price going forward, and where we are looing to get in and out of the markets according to our intraday strategy.
As ever, take a look at the chart below to get an idea of where things stand.
As the chart shows, we are looking at in term support to the downside at 687 flat (a little down on this morning’s support) and in term resistance to the upside at 694.
We’re going to focus purely on our breakout strategy (although there’s probably enough room for an intrarange approach if we really wanted to push for it).
So, long on a close above resistance, with a target of 700 flat. A stop at 681 defines risk nicely. Conversely, if we see a close below support, we’ll be in short towards 680 flat.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.