Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Not saying that the US election results could impact an independent market like Bitcoin, one can still see digital currency traders mirroring stock market traders’ cautious take.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Traders might want to take a break as the race for next presidential election gets tighter with each passing day. The world’s leading markets, namely S&P 500 (-2%), Dow Jones (-1.5%), Nasdaq Composite (-2.8%), have encountered a short burst of volatility, illustrating how speculators are giving too much weightage to pre-poll readings. These are, however, just cautious parameters amid uncertain prognostications.
Not saying that the US election results could impact an independent market like Bitcoin, one can still see digital currency traders mirroring stock market traders’ cautious take. Especially after the recent rally, which saw Bitcoin price logging <$100 gains in just two weeks, traders are now preferring to keep their heads low. As a result, what we have today is a less volatile and sensitive price action.
Moving away from the fundamental factors, and bringing our focus on intraday trading strategy, here is what we are looking as we head into the US session.
The chart above is a fifteen-minute chart illustrating today’s price action, and it has got our range overlaid. Take a look at that before we kick things off so as you know what we’re going for before things get moving.
As the chart shows, the range for today is defined by 709 fiat as our interim resistance and 695 fiat as interim support. In between, we also have 700 acting as the psychological support. Considering the wide-enough range, we will be using our usual intraday strategy at place for now. That means, entering a long position towards resistance when price floats near support, or vice versa.
If price breaks below 700, followed by 695, it will have us watch for a close below that level to validate an immediate downside entry towards 675. Conversely, if price breaks above resistance, we will look for a close to give us an excuse to get in long towards 718 fiat, a pretty aggressive target.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
India-based IT professional Yashu Gola found Bitcoin in 2012, when he was trying to send money to one of his friends in the US. As he quotes, it was “love-at-first-sight” with the mystical work of digital currencies. He left his online advertising job to work as a full-time Bitcoin writer for forex news website ForexMinute.com. Apart from covering the minute-to-minute Bitcoin events, Yashu is also an active Bitcoin trader and analyst.When not working, he is found reading and writing movie scripts, poems and songs. He is also a passionate movie buff View all posts by Gola Yashu
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.