Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this morning.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
So there we go. Another week pretty much complete, and it’s been a big one for many reasons. Trump is heading to the White House, the bitcoin price has made a series of fresh highs, and sentiment seems to be on the up. We’re expecting this sentiment to maintain throughout the weekend and into next week, so 800 is looking more and more of a possibility. Yes, we’ve got $80 or so to go before we crack this level, but we’ve seen bigger moves over a couple of days, and we’re going to be optimistic.
So, with this in mind, let’s get to our strategy and see if we can bring things together heading into the weekend.
As ever, take a quick look at the chart below to get an idea of what happened overnight, and where we are looking at getting in and out of the markets according to our intraday strategy.
As the chart shows, the range we are focusing on for this morning’s European session is defined by in term support to the downside at 719, and in term resistance to the upside at 724. We’ve actually got our line a little lower than 724, but for the sake of simplicity, we’re going to put it there.
So, breakout strategy only right now, with a view to expanding out into our intrarange approach if things tighten up.
If we see price break above resistance, we are going to watch for a close above this level to get in long towards an immediate upside target of 730. A stop loss on this one somewhere in the region of 720 flat works well to keep risk defined.
Looking short, if we manage to get a close below resistance, we will get in short towards 710. This one’s a little more aggressive, and we can widen out our stop a little as a result. Somewhere in the region of 723 looks good.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.