The “old country” Italy is ahead of many others as it comes to the Blockchain technology. Take the possibility of booking a taxi in Rome with Bitcoin.
However, there are more interesting ideas in Italy today. Some of the most relevant Italian Fintech figures told Cointelegraph about their new Bitcoin-related projects.
Following a conference held in Rome on June 17th and organized by the Blockchain Education Network Italia (BEN Italia), a few members of this association are working on a law proposal that could encourage the adoption of the Blockchain within the Italian country, Lazio Region to be precise.
During that event, in fact, BEN Italia explained the revolution brought by the Blockchain and its possible applications in the political administration. This way, BEN Italia and Davide Barillari (Lazio Region Counsellor) explained the benefits that the distributed ledger could lead to the entire political system.
According to the law proposal (still in draft), the Blockchain technology will be used by the Italian public administration to do transactions across Lazio Region, public entities and suppliers; to pay for public services; to certify contracts and documents; to carry out administrative checks, etc.
To do so, BEN Italia will help the Lazio Region to set and implement the distributed ledger correctly in order to reach those objectives.
BEN Italia, in fact, is composed by young developers and entrepreneurs with their own projects such as QuiBitcoin, Chainside and more.
In Southern Italy, Bitcoin Foundation Puglia promotes a master class on Bitcoin and the Blockchain, with a particular focus on the tax and legal aspects.
“The course’s goal is to train legal and economic operators to understand, negotiate, regulate and provide expert advice about purchase, production and sale of cryptocurrencies,” says lawyer Giuseppe Grisorio, President of Bitcoin Foundation Puglia.
“In an economic system that is evolving worldwide, it is important to know the new dynamics about digital currencies. That’s why University of Bari (UNIBA) decided to support Bitcoin Foundation Puglia to provide adequate academic and scientific contribution to people who decide to complete their own training.”
BlockchainLAB is the first entrepreneurial effort that brings together the best experts on the Blockchain in an Italian center of excellence dedicated to research.
To do so, BlockchainLab provides its support to constantly map all the most promising and innovative technologies and startups in the Fintech sector.
It also produces research and in-depth analysis of the Blockchain universe, allowing an easier access to prototypes and experimental products, as well as participating directly in venture investments in startups.
The BlockchainLab team, in fact, is composed by an insightful team of entrepreneurs and developers that work also on their own companies, such as Ethernity Wall, GreenAddress, HelperBit, HolyTransaction and more.