EverdreamSoft and Channel 4 video game publisher to bring blockchain-based mobile trading card game to broader audience.
All 4 Games, the video game publishing arm of Channel 4, is partnering with mobile game developer EverdreamSoft (EDS), in accordance with the release and publication of Bitcoin blockchain sensation Spells of Genesis .
Spells of Genesis (SoG) is mobile game which mixes the collection and strategic aspects of trading cards with the addictiveness of arcade games. SoG is exploring "true ownership" for users, whereby all the game's assets are stored on the blockchain.
SoG issued its own game currency called BitCrystals, which were sold during a crowdfunding that raised over 930 bitcoin (around $300,000).
The system uses the Bitcoin blockchain via Counterparty to issue BitCrystals, which are now traded on major crypo-exchanges like ShapeShift and Poloniex.
The currency is limited, so if demand for game assets increases then the value of BitCrystals increases proportionally.
Shaban Shaame, EDS founder and CEO, said: "Being endorsed by a solid publisher is a great advantage for every game developer, especially for smaller studios. All 4 Games will be responsible for exposing the game to a much broader, more mainstream gaming community that we could not have ever reached on our own."
Tone Brennan, executive producer at All 4 Games said he was thrilled to have signed Spells of Genesis. "The blockchain is a ground-breaking and fast moving form of digital economy and I'm excited that we're going to be an early entrant infusing this in gaming. The team at EDS have created a compelling card battler mechanic that I'm looking forward to seeing released," he said.
All 4 Games will provide extensive expertise and guidance to improve various aspects of the game including graphics, animations, menus and other important aspects that ensure we are meeting the high standards they seek in all of their titles. In addition, the partnership will help in translations, important for the many markets EDS intends to release SoG in.
All 4 Games will also provide analytics tools and technical services which will help improve SoG and make it fit for a mainstream audience. They will also be in charge of the product's quality testing and publication of the game on various platforms, said a statement.
Spells of Genesis has made significant progress since its successful crowdfunding campaign in September 2015, releasing progressively improved iterations — termed Seasons — of the blockchain-based mobile trading card game.
Markéta Korteova, marketing and communications manager at EDS, said: "Since the beginning, Spells of Genesis has been surrounded and heavily supported by a very engaged community, whose help and commitment are highly valued by the team. Without the community's close cooperation we wouldn't have been able to achieve what we did."
After the web soft launch as previously announced, EDS is going to soft launch the mobile version of the game. The company has decided together with All 4 Games to soft launch in the following countries: Canada, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand. The mobile soft launch date is tentatively slated for next month (November) with further announcements in relation to this to be made in the coming weeks.
Shaame added: "A massive thank you goes to each one of you who have been supporting us and shared some of the most important Spells of Genesis milestones. We still have a lot to do and improve and are working hard for the game to evolve further.
"We are thrilled to have you with us, and happy that now the SoG team is even bigger and stronger. This is a great time for Spells of Genesis and its future and we hope you will all cherish this moment with us."
Crewe Alexandra and Penn State: Why were paedophiles allowed to prey on the young?