We use cookies to enhance your experience like remembering your Time Zone. By closing this message you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Learn more
Please Note: All data, figures & graphs below are valid as of October 11th. All trading carries risk. Only risk capital you are prepared to lose.
To illustrate a clean breakout, let's take a look at this short term chart of everyone's favorite digital currency...
For the past 3 weeks, the price was moving upward at a gradual pace. Since last Friday however, it was having trouble passing the $615 mark and started to build up resistance (purple line). When it broke through that line early this morning, the price shot up $18 a coin in a matter of moments.
The breakout in the crude oil is not as clear cut. The price has been ranging between $40 and $50 a barrel for the better part of the year so inertia is strong. Yesterday's news that Russia may be willing to cut their oil production along with OPEC pushed the price above $51.80 for the first time since July 2015.
So now we find ourselves in a funny place that is very unsure. Are we heading back into the range towards $45, or are we heading to an entirely new level of $60? We can really feel the magnet pulling in both directions.
But that's as far as technical analysis can take us. The next movement will most likely be determined by fundamental analysis. Later today delegates from Russia and Saudi Arabia will be meeting to see if they can reach a consensus. If Putin and King Salman can strike a deal, it could certainly push the prices higher.
Don't forget though, the shale oil producers in America are watching this story very closely as well. They've been sitting largely on the sidelines lately as the price of oil was too low for them to produce at a profit, but the higher we get on the graph the more they'll be enticed to jump in the game.
Well, we may be headed for a breakout here as well. Just take a look at this recent comment from our resident DAX trader @running-chris...
But what will bring the breakout. We do have an event tomorrow night that could be instrumental.
Tomorrow night, the Federal Open Market Committee will release the minutes from their meeting last month. Remember, during that meeting we had a high number (three) of Fed members who voted to raise the rates, even though the consensus was to leave them unchanged. This type of non-unanimous voting is quite rare for the world's most powerful financial institution. 
Gaining more insight into what happened in that meeting, will be critical for Fed-watchers to understand what, and more importantly when, the Fed's next move will be.
Let me know if you have any questions or if you need any assistance in your portfolio. Feel free to reply directly on this Email, or hit me up on the network @MatiGreenspan.
  Trading in the Foreign Exchange market might carry potential rewards, but also potential risks. You must be aware of the risks and are willing to accept them in order to trade in the foreign exchange market. Don't trade with money you can't afford to lose.