Wefunder Now Accepts Bitcoin, Says Deal Pipeline is Very Strong - Crowdfund Insider
Wefunder, the Reg CF platform that has now crowdfunded over $8.4 million since May of this year dominating the sector, has now added a new feature.  Wefunder now accepts Bitcoin transactions making it even easier to invest in early stage companies. Bitcoin is generally thought of as a highly secure and efficient method of transferring value. In many ways it is better than using a credit card.
“We worked pretty hard to figure out how to offer Bitcoin as a way to purchase securities in a Regulation Crowdfunding legally.  It’s a popular request among some of our more tech-savvy early adopter investors, especially as no bank is (yet) willing to enable credit cards for Reg CF.”
Out of the 46 successful Reg CF offerings across the industry, Wefunder has funded 33 of them as of this week. More than 7500 investors have participated in a Reg CF offer on Wefunder with the vast majority of investments being less than $500.  Wefunder reports a 56% success rate for issuers raising capital on their platform.
“We’re seeing the Reg CF industry start to grow faster. With each success story we’ve funded, more companies have come to Wefunder asking for our help, and our pipeline of upcoming offerings has increased. Our team worked pretty hard to launch 10 companies last week, and we’ll be rolling out another 5 in a few days.”
Wefunder recently revealed it will be moving into the Reg A+ side of the crowdfunding business.  While Reg CF is capped at raises of $1 million, issuers may raise up to $50 million under Reg A+.
The Only 2 Sites You Need to Know About When Building a Website
WeFunder: “People are Going to Be Surprised by the Quality of Companies that Decide to use Reg CF”
Wefunder Enables Giving the Gift of Early Stage Investing with Holiday Gift Cards
Congress Must Fix Title III Investment Crowdfunding, No Startup Will Touch it Unless Congress Acts
This entry was posted in Crowdfunding Portals and tagged bitcoin, nick tommarello, regulation a, regulation cf, wefunder. Bookmark the permalink.
SoFi COO Joanne Bradford: In 5 Years We Are Going to Look Very Different Than Today
Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond's Autumn Statement: Further Support for Business Including Fintech
German Finance Ministry Publishes Report on Fintech: Very High Growth in Recent Years
asia australia california canada charity china crowdcube equity europe event fca film fintech france games gaming germany gofundme hardware health indiegogo jobs act kickstarter lending club london marketplace medical music new zealand p2p peer to peer perspective real estate regulation a regulations research sec seedrs singapore tactics technology title III uk united kingdom video games