Japan May Abolish the 8% Sales Tax on Bitcoin By Prableen Bajpai, CFA (ICFAI) | October 13, 2016 — 12:19 PM EDT
According to a report published by The Nikkei, Japan is finally looking to drop the 8% sales tax levied on the virtual currency, which would trim the costs for buyers and relieve exchanges from the administrative burden related to taxation. The abolition of the tax will provide a boost to the growth of alternatives such as bitcoin in Japan.
The consumption tax and other fees paid by exchanges have been limiting the growth and adoption of bitcoin in Japan. A formal decision is expected after discussions between the Finance Ministry and Financial Services Agency at the end of the year. Japan is the only country among the Group of Seven leading industrial economies that taxes bitcoin purchases. The FSA had sought clarification in the summer on the nature of virtual currencies to decide whether purchases should be taxed. (See also, Risks & Rewards Of Investing In Bitcoin)
The image of bitcoin in Japan was tarnished when Mt Gox was hacked and eventually filed for bankruptcy in February 2014. People grew skeptical about virtual currencies, and so did the authorities. Back then, Japanese authorities took steps to insulate the Japanese financial sector from the world of virtual currencies. Banks were prohibited from handling bitcoins, while securities firms were barred from brokering bitcoin trades. The banks wouldn’t allow bitcoin businesses to open accounts. Additionally, transactions pertaining to bitcoin were subject to taxation as it was categorized as a commodity and not currency. (See also, Bitcoin Mass Hysteria: The Disaster that Brought Down Mt. Gox)
Fast forward to 2016, bitcoin’s rising popularity and confidence around the world began to mount pressure on the government to exempt bitcoins from consumption tax. In early 2016, there was a much-talked about debate on how to handle bitcoin. While some argued that Japan was not alone in taxing bitcoins, other’s argued that Japan was going against the world and that the taxation was bad for Japan in terms of its competitiveness. In May 2016, two years after Mt Gox, certain revisions were made in the existing laws which were welcomed by operators. Under the revised laws, as reported by Japan Times, virtual currency exchanges were required to register with the Financial Services Agency and it reserved the right to conduct inspections and issue administrative orders. The revised law defines virtual currencies as “asset-like values” that can be used in making payments and can be transferred digitally.
Currently, around 2,500 stores in Japan accept bitcoins as a means of payment. To further increase the adoption of the virtual currency, a bitcoin start-up ResuPress, Inc. plans to accept the cryptocurrency as payment for electricity charges which is expected to reduce the payment owed by 4-6%. Bitcoin offers benefits such as fast and low fee transactions, especially for domestic and international payments. The rally in its price, as well low correlation vis-à-vis financial market assets, has increased investor interest in it as an investment vehicle. Overall, if the proposal of abolishing tax on bitcoin and other virtual currencies is implemented in Japan, their popularity is sure to scale new heights.
Bitcoin is still so new that countries are struggling to make legislation catch up with technology. Some nations are more open to virtual currency than others.
Read about the volatility in the price of Bitcoin. Learn how the currency has seen major spikes and crashes, as well as differences in prices across exchanges.
Although bitcoin has been in existence for five years, most countries still do not have consistent laws regulating the cryptocurrency. However, a few countries have banned bitcoin altogether.
Bitcoin's value fluctuates due to a confluence of factors, including media hype and perceived value.
A look at the reasons behind the recent spectacular surge in bitcoin prices.
ETFs offer a cost-effective, safe and hassle-free way to invest and trade bitcoins as stocks, without worrying about the security of digital wallets.
We look at what determines the value of Bitcoin, the digital currency, and when it might take off.
A look at the forces behind the recent surge in Bitcoin price and how it stands entering 2016.
There are many ways to earn and own Bitcoins other than just buying them on a Bitcoin exchange.
Discover the market dynamics behind bitcoin's latest price recovery in late 2015 and why its underlying value is expected to remain strong in 2016.
DICTIONARY: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q
Articles Terms Videos Guides Slideshows FAQs Calculators Chart Advisor Stock Analysis Stock Simulator FXtrader Exam Prep Quizzer Net Worth Calculator
© 2016, Investopedia, LLC. Feedback All Rights Reserved Terms Of Use Privacy Policy