The phones of Indian Bitcoin companies have been ringing non-stop ever since the Indian Government began faltering in replacing the outlawed currency notes while search queries on Google Trends have hit an all-time high.
New Delhi (Sputnik) — India's bitcoin exchange companies have been getting frantic calls from people after the Government outlawed high value currency notes. It has also put a cap on bank deposits and exchange of old bills but has been shifting the goal posts to end long waiting times at banks and ATMs. Search queries around ‘Bitcoin’ on Google Trends have hit an all-time high.
ZebPay and Unicoin say they have turned down customers interested in investing huge amounts in the crypto-currency. But experts feel the lack of specific regulations can make Bitcoin a major facilitator of money laundering, tax avoidance and evasion, drug trafficking, blackmailing and terrorist financing.
"This arena of virtual transitions is relatively novel and largely untested. This means that just like any new technology or innovation there is a high possibility of loopholes that have not been detected yet. Most prominent of these offences which are already existent in the traditional financial world and which may extend to Bitcoin are money laundering and terrorist financing," said the research paper Bitcoins — A Global Perspective, which was published in April 2015 by Nishith Desai Associates, a global legal consultancy.
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in a warning noted "The absence of information of counterparties in such peer-to-peer anonymous/ pseudonymous systems could subject the users to unintentional breaches of anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism laws."
There is no prohibition to mining, trading and transfer of Bitcoins in India. Bitcoin does not come under the ambit of currency, legal tender or foreign exchange and the RBI hasn’t come up with guidelines on this yet, except for the warning it issued in December 2013.
Aleppo Humanitarian Pauses Sabotaged Due to Lack of UN Initiative - Russian MoD
Russia has repeatedly introduced so-called humanitarian pauses in Syria's Aleppo, but every time they were sabotaged by lack of initiative from the United Nations representatives and actions of terrorists, the Russian Defense Ministry's spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel expects that this year around 100,000 migrants will leave Germany, over half of them voluntarily.
The fighters of Japan's Air Self-Defense Forces (JASDF) have raised to the sky on Saturday after the Chinese Air Force aircraft were spotted near the Japanese island of Okinawa, local media reported Saturday.
US mainstream media pundits and corporate executives liked to present themselves as liberals, but they are turning into fascists in their growing efforts to suppress alternative news outlets they disapproved of in face of their own lost credibility and influence over the American public, US analysts told Sputnik.
On Tuesday, government officials from Seoul and Washington met to discuss the ongoing deployment of nearly 30,000 American soldiers in South Korea as well as the changes to the arrangement that President-elect Donald Trump may seek.
A new bill presented in the UK this week, if passed into law, will compel internet providers to keep a list of websites users visit for a year and make those records available to nearly 50 government agencies upon request.
Two Saudi Women Sentenced to 20 Lashes for Using These Words in WhatsApp
Serbia Getting Ready to Repel the "Invasion" of Frozen 34 Years Old Pigs from Nato Stocks