Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Bitcoin price is retreating upon reaching its yearly highs but bulls could be ready for another push higher after this pullback.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Bitcoin price reached the yearly highs around $780 and profit-taking happened as predicted in the previous article.
Price is now making a pullback from its recent rally and could encounter more bulls who are waiting at the next area of interest.
Technical indicators are confirming that the uptrend could resume once the correction is completed.
Bitcoin price is retreating upon reaching its yearly highs but bulls could be ready for another push higher after this pullback.
The 100 SMA just crossed above the longer-term 200 SMA to indicate that the path of least resistance is to the upside. The gap between the moving averages is widening, which means that bullish pressure is getting stronger and that bitcoin price could revisit its recent highs sooner or later.
Stochastic is turning higher from the oversold area, also to indicate that profit-taking might be over and that buyers could return to the game. RSI is also starting to bottom out so price could follow suit. However, a larger pullback to the broken resistance around $720-735 could encounter more bulls waiting with their long orders.
Yellen’s hawkish speech in front of the Joint Economic Committee confirmed that a December Fed rate hike is in the bag. This led to strong gains for the US dollar across the board, although this sentiment may have long been priced in already so there might not be much more gains for the US currency.
With that, the pickup in risk sentiment could favor bitcoin price once more, as traders move closer to booking profits off their long USD positions towards the end of the year. In her testimony, Yellen cautioned that increased fiscal stimulus could run the risk of overheating the US economy, especially since it is already nearing full employment. Still, she added that the Fed stands ready to make adjustments if necessary.
Data from the US economy has been mostly stronger than expected and the remaining event risk might be the US NFP report. As for bitcoin, renewed interest from Chinese investors on a weakening yuan has been keeping the cryptocurrency supported.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Sarah has been involved in the cryptocurrency space since the very beginning. Having stumbled across well hidden discussions in early forums she immersed herself in the industry, and is now a leading author and consultant for a range of bitcoin companies. She loves DASH and mathematics. View all posts by Sarah Jenn
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.