'Bitcoin a catalyst for cashless Ghana' says African internet pioneer - ITWeb Africa
Home E-Commerce Ghana 'Bitcoin A Catalyst For Cashless Ghana' Says African Internet Pioneer
Bitcoin will help spur the growth of a cashless society in Ghana, the acclaimed "father of the internet in Africa" has said at last week's third Ghana e-Commerce Conference and Exhibition in Accra.
Nii Narku Quaynor is the Chairman of IT solutions firm, GhanaDotCom which launched the first bitcoin mining facility in Africa this February.
He started one of Ghana's first Internet Service Providers in 1993 and has served on the board of ICANN and the Internet Governance Forum Advisory Group at the United Nations.
In his keynote address Quaynor said that Ghana has a mature e-commerce economy and stressed the need for stakeholders to intensify their engagement and collaboration for the industry to thrive in the country, though with a caution about cybercrime and related cyber security issues as a significant threat to adoption.
In May, Ghana's Chapter of the Internet Society trained some of its members on cryptography which it considers a major issue in parts of Africa. As the first of its kind in Ghana and possibly in the West African region, the training was organised to create awareness about the tool that makes communication more secure on the Internet as the group tends to focus on ensuring the security of transactions on the Internet first before discussing Bitcoin adoption.
After the launch of the mining facility, Quaynor had maintained that as he had worked to pioneer internet development in Africa, he will promote Bitcoin development and the blockchain technology which has numerous other applications beyond cryptocurrencies.
At the sideline of the event, Quaynor told Citi Business News that digital money is better than mobile money and credit cards because it is natively designed for use in cyber environments, faster and under the control of its owner.
Over a hundred delegates were at the event which as the theme: 'Transforming Ghana's online Businesses through Technology, Innovation & Opportunity'.
According to its organiser, Ghana's e-commerce industry has been growing rapidly with the increased emergence of alternative payments such as mobile banking and online payment platforms and it is poised to boom.
Despite its over 70% unbanked population, mobile money transactions alone reached 679.17 million cedis by the end of June 2016 in Ghana, it says quoting the Bank of Ghana's Payment Systems Department. That shows an increase of over 20% from the end of 2015 which it says is poised to double by 2018.
Johan Walters, Head of C2C Labs, the innovation hub of Clicks2Customers, motivates for the alignment of innovation with marketing budget.
"If Zimbabwe establishes a privatised bitcoin national currency, if the market naturally went to a Bitcoin type currency, as other currencies around the world indicate weakness with money printing happening, you'd have a whole lot of currency flowing into Zimbabwe."
The number of global mobile subscriptions by the end of 2016, according to Ericsson's Global Mobility Report.
Veeam announces its most scalable availability suite ever, heralding a new era for enterprises
Veeam® Software, the innovative provider of solutions that deliver Availability for the Always-On Enterprise™,announces that New Veeam Availability Suite 9.5, engineered to support enterprises seeking the ability to run their businesses uninterrupted as they adopt more virtualised, cloud-first technologies, is now generally available for customers across the globe.
New consumer survey shows high anxiety about online security does not translate into action
A new consumer survey concluded that two-thirds of Americans believe themselves to be tech savvy, although their actions with regard to online security indicate otherwise – with millennials being the worst offenders.
As businesses globally seek to reduce overheads while boosting customer service and efficiency, there is a meteoric rise of the Chatbot and AI, linked to automated and intelligent self-service.
Ensuring information security just became more urgent for South African businesses and other institutions.