4 Reasons To Buy Bitcoin Now - Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust ETF (Pending:COIN) | Seeking Alpha
The most adventurous and independent of institutions have stuck their toe in the water.
Bitcoin is the currency of the Internet: a distributed, worldwide, decentralized digital money. Unlike traditional currencies such as dollars, bitcoins are issued and managed without any central authority whatsoever: there is no government, company, or bank in charge of bitcoin.
For a more comprehensive overview of what bitcoin is, its Wikipedia page is a great resource.
Bitcoin represents a tiny part of my portfolio but I'm intending to build the size of the stake a little bit. In my view, it is a suitable minor component of the left side (safe side) of The Black Swan Portfolio. Please note: Bitcoin is extremely volatile.
There are a few things coming together why I'm writing it up now:
The SEC is gathering input on the Winklevoss Brothers initiative (Pending:COIN) and it looks like some kinks could use working out this appear doable. Even if they fail, I suspect we are going to witness an ETF or fund getting launched at some point. Here's the latest SEC letter.
HK, run by the FRMO Corp. (OTCPK:FRMO) team and a Black Swan Portfolio holding, started a fund for its clients (emphasis mine) and there was a lot of interest:
In 2016, Horizon Kinetics also established a fund that invests in bitcoin. Bitcoin is an example of a cryptocurrency. This asset class will be discussed more fully in the section pertaining to our investment in Digital Currency Group. This asset class did not exist several years ago; it is entirely new. The fund established an investment maximum of $50,000 per client. We are not aware of any other firm that so constrains client contributions. However, we believe it is the easiest and most obvious way to control risk. We simply limit the amount of money that can possibly be lost to an amount that is tolerable. Investment firms often complain about the short-term focus of clients. The short-term focus is more understandable if the investment in failure mode could quite negatively impact their lives. In any case, we rapidly sold essentially every available slot in the fund.