Bill Gross: Central Banks Using Martingale System By Aaron Hankin | October 4, 2016 — 3:41 PM EDT
Bill Gross, co-founder of PIMCO and current bond fund manger at Janus capital, believes financial markets have become a "Vegas Casino" led by central banks and their unconventional monetary policy. In his monthly investment outlook, Gross said current central bank policy is akin to the Martingale theory of investing, where, if you have enough money, you will eventually win by doubling up every time you lose. However, Gross said there is a point in the road where, after a string of losses the bet sizes become unsustainable. "This same mathematical logic seems to have eluded central bankers around the globe," Gross said.
"They are quite simply, employing a Martingale System in the conduct of monetary policy with policy rates now in negative territory for both the ECB and the BOJ — which in turn have led to over $15 trillion of negative yielding developed economy sovereign bonds."
The bond market bubble has been Gross's pet whipping post for a while. In June of this year, Gross said central banks' negative interest rates were a grave mistake. “Global yields lowest in 500 years of recorded history,” Gross, tweeted on the Janus Capital Twitter account.
“$10 trillion of neg. rate bonds. This is a supernova that will explode one day.”
Gross argues that the low or negative interest rate environment is destroying conventional business models, which in turn is eroding growth. Central bankers are giving people fewer investment vehicles to place their money in, which is producing a heard like mentality in equities. Global equities in the U.S. and Europe are near or at historic highs while central banks grapple to spur inflation – something they are having limited success with. (See also: How Negative Interest Rates Work.)
Where should investors look? Gross said Bitcoin and Gold are two assets that may become increasingly popular as investors look for better returns, despite coming with added risk. "At some point investors – leery and indeed weary of receiving negative or near zero returns on their money, may at the margin desert the standard financial complex, for higher returning or better yet, less risky alternatives," Gross said. (See also: Fla. Lawmaker Pushing to Classify Bitcoin as Money.)
Either way, the central bankers are the dealers at the table and in theory, they do have unlimited funds to double down.
"After all, their cumulative balance sheets have increased by $15 trillion+ since the Great Recession. Why not $16 trillion more and then 20 or 30?" Gross said.
Goldman Sachs recently predicted that a 1% increase in yield on sovereign debt would cost investors $1 trillion of losses.
Bill Gross, who runs the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund, is seldom at a lack for evocative imagery.
Whether it's the sun in its death throes or a British absurdist comedy's portrayal of gluttony, the $58 trillion in credit in the U.S. is for Bill Gross a giant, ravenous thing that threatens ...
Discover how Bill Gross, one of the world's most successful and eccentric billionaires, invests his money and why he plans to give it all away.
The sun, which sustains and nourishes life, will one day devour the earth.
Read about the investment letter from famed bond king Bill Gross for 2016. See how he says the 99% are living a Xanax existence while the 1% prosper.
Noted investor Bill Gross painted a gloomy picture of corporate bond markets during an interview.
Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer unofficial currency that operates without government or central bank oversight. Can Bitcoin kill off the need for central banks?
News of Bill Gross’ resignation has roiled the fixed income market. Given the sizable outflows from the Total Return fund, here are some alternatives.
We are currently seeing negative central bank deposit rates and government and corporate bonds with negative yields, but there are investors buying into these securities. Why?
DICTIONARY: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q
Articles Terms Videos Guides Slideshows FAQs Calculators Chart Advisor Stock Analysis Stock Simulator FXtrader Exam Prep Quizzer Net Worth Calculator
© 2016, Investopedia, LLC. Feedback All Rights Reserved Terms Of Use Privacy Policy