Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Bitcoin Event to Donate Portion of Proceeds to the Central Texas Food Bank
AUSTIN, TX – Austin based event company Cyberfunks Alliance (“Cyberfunks”) is pleased to announce their partnership with the Central Texas Food Bank (“Food Bank”) for their inaugural event series, Bitcoin Awakens, which will be held in Austin, TX on Saturday, October 22, 2016. 10% of the purchase price from every ticket sale automatically goes to the Food Bank.
Today’s announcement is the first in a series of related forthcoming announcements. Cyberfunks is a deeply entrenched network of Bitcoin enthusiasts who will host a groundbreaking event aimed at bridging the gap between Bitcoin technology and those without access to a bank account.
Using OpenBazaar, Cyberfunks listed a store enabling people to donate to the Food Bank and buy tickets for “Bitcoin Awakens” with no processing fee or middleman involved. Anyone in the world with access to an Internet connection can use Bitcoin and OpenBazaar to exchange goods and services freely.
Unlike traditional donation methods, OpenBazaar is not hindered by geographical restrictions for selling certain products due to varying political and economic factors. This makes a great platform to request donations at zero-marginal-cost.
Bitcoin donations to the Food Bank are fast, secure and make a big difference for non-profits. Unlike other types of donations, they go straight to supporting the mission, reducing the fees and overhead the charity pays. Without processing fees, 100% of Bitcoin donations go straight to the Food Bank.
This means that Bitcoin donations will provide more healthy meals for Central Texans in need. The Food Bank can turn a $1 donation into four meals worth of nutritious food! By raising food and funds for the Food Bank, you’re helping Central Texans eat healthier and live better. Nearly 46,000 Central Texans, one-third of them children, are counting on us each week to get the nutritious food they need and otherwise wouldn’t be able to afford.
This alliance helps the Food Bank provide meals to thousands of Central Texans facing hunger and helps to close the “hunger gap” that leaves nearly 30% of our neighbors in need without food assistance.
At Cyberfunks, we’re serious about empowering those in need and our relationship with the Food Bank gives us a great opportunity. Social value is the true beauty of Bitcoin and our mission is to show that. This is also a great way for Bitcoin to reach the everyday person and show them things they can relate to and how Bitcoin can help. This can help us bridge the gap from early adopters to mainstream.
The key to mass adoption is providing real value by addressing real needs! In order to spend this Bitcoin, a person must do hours of investigation to learn and locate usage. We overlook why and how Bitcoin applies to a lifestyle, where a person will use it, or even what technology Bitcoin’s based upon or how it functions.
Join us as we co-create the inroads for urban, tech-savvy, smartphone users to leapfrog inefficient economic infrastructures and reduce dependency upon legacy financial systems in a way that is lucrative and fun. Event ticket includes food/refreshments, giveaways, and admittance to the Bitcoin Awakens Victory party.
Bitcoin Awakens is designed for experts, users with no prior bitcoin experience and everything in between.
The mission of the Central Texas Food Bank of Texas is to nourish hungry people and lead the community in ending hunger. Founded in 1981, the Food Bank provides food and grocery products through a network of 300 Partner Agencies and feeding and nutrition programs across 21 Central Texas counties, serving 46,000 people every week.The Food Bank was the first food bank in the nation to accept Bitcoin donations.
For more information on the Central Texas Food Bank and its programs, visit https://www.centraltexasfoodbank.org/ and follow them on Twitter @CTXFoodBank.
Cyberfunks Alliance produces immersive experiences to teach about digital currency technology by using real world, fun-filled adventures. Guests take center stage in competitions of mystery, teamwork, and camaraderie which is the coolest Bitcoin event on the planet.
  Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
India-based IT professional Yashu Gola found Bitcoin in 2012, when he was trying to send money to one of his friends in the US. As he quotes, it was “love-at-first-sight” with the mystical work of digital currencies. He left his online advertising job to work as a full-time Bitcoin writer for forex news website ForexMinute.com. Apart from covering the minute-to-minute Bitcoin events, Yashu is also an active Bitcoin trader and analyst.When not working, he is found reading and writing movie scripts, poems and songs. He is also a passionate movie buff View all posts by Gola Yashu
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.