FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
The government of Dubai’s Supreme Legislation Committee (SLC) announced that it will discuss the bitcoin regulation, including current and future of legislative and legal frameworks, during a workshop that will be held on November 20.
According to the reports, the workshop titled ‘Virtual Currency: Fact and Law’ will take place in cooperation with the Dubai Electronic Security Center (DESC) that will see local and federal entities. The workshop aims to spread awareness among community members about rights, duties and legal obligations.
“The move is part of our continuing efforts to build a legal knowledge base in line with our strategic objectives in strengthening the legal system and developing the legislative process to achieve the objective and realistic requirements for drafting leading legislation,” Ahmad bin Meshar Al Muhairi, SLC Secretary General said.
The workshop will see presentations on key topics including ‘Definition and Origin of Virtual Currency,’ ‘Methods of Verifying the Identity of Users as per Local and International Cyber Security Laws,’ ‘Comparison between Virtual and Paper Currency,’ among others. Dr. Marwan Al Zarouni, Director of Information Services at Dubai Electronic Security Center, will brief on general facts and will highlight the uses of virtual currency in money transfer and shopping. He will also focus on preventing fraud and money laundering. There will be in-depth discussions on ‘Legal and Legislative Frameworks of Virtual Currency at the International Level.’
“The term ‘virtual currency’ is relatively new, not only in the UAE and the region but also globally. Therefore, there is an urgent need to spread awareness about bitcoin and to focus on the highest level of security and privacy within the virtual world,” he added. “Considering its differences from traditional currencies on several levels, including the lack of central regulatory authority, we look forward to support officials at government bodies nationwide with detailed information about the optimal use of this virtual currency.”
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
507m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
507m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
508m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
508m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
508m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Indian economy to expand below 7 pct this year, further upside in USD/INR likely
GBP/USD likely to be vulnerable to significant bouts of volatility over coming year, says Lloyds Bank
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more