This Week in Emerging Growth: Dow Jones Closes Over 19,000, Can Now Drink in Canada
Overstock (OSTK), an online retailer, revealed a major development earlier this month. Announced November 1, the company’s subsidiary majority-owned fintech subsidiary, t0, has built the world’s first trading portal for the exchange of securities on blockchain technology. Reaching a new milestone in its efforts to merge Wall Street and bitcoin, as reported by Investopedia, Overstock’s board of directors has approved a non-transferable rights offering, allowing its stockholders to purchase shares of its preferred stock, including preferred shares to be issued and traded exclusively on a registered alternative trading system using the t0 issuance and trading platform.
For nearly twenty years, the Salt Lake City-based company has offered a broad range of household and personal products at discounted prices. In 2014, Forbes featured the company in its list of the Top 100 Most Trustworthy Companies.
Offering a variety of products of both discount brand and non-brand name merchandise, Overstock provides deep discounts on, among others, electronics, home goods, fashion and apparel, and kitchenware.
Furthermore, the company has seen some impressive movement on the market in recent days, following the release of its Q3 2016 financial results.
Q3 revenue totaling $441.6M, a 13% increase when compared to Q3 2015 data.
Q3 gross profit margin totaling $79.7M, a 10% increase when compared to Q3 2015 data.
"The retail business is re-accelerating and is fundamentally sound," said Patrick M. Byrne, founder and CEO of Overstock. "It had a pre-tax loss of ($0.9) million in Q3, which included $3.9 million of impairment and bad debt expense related to an international minority investment. Our Medici business cost us $3.0 million pre-tax this quarter, but that was well worth it as we achieve real progress in our blockchain and fintech initiatives that others have yet to demonstrate."
Now, one might ask why Overstock has taken an interest in Bitcoin. Well, since we are on the topic of its CEO, Byrne has, over the years, voiced his support and enthusiasm regarding bitcoin. In 2014, Overstock began accepting Bitcoin as payment, making it one of the largest online retailers to accept the cryptocurrency.
With its recent development within the cryptocurrency space, the investment community looks forward to future developments from the company regarding its efforts within this space. “This is the culmination of over two years of true innovation and hard work,” said Byrne. “Through this public issuance of blockchain-based securities the history of capital markets is entering a new era, the era of blockchain-based securities.”
DISCLOSURE: The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors, and do not represent the views of equities.com. Readers should not consider statements made by the author as formal recommendations and should consult their financial advisor before making any investment decisions. To read our full disclosure, please go to: http://www.equities.com/disclaimer
Financial Myths: It’s Better to Light a Candle Than Curse the Darkness, Part III
As Sam Sees It: A ‘Trump Bump’ Breather Could Create a Buying Opportunity
Altair Resources Inc, formerly Altair Gold Inc acquires, explores and develops mineral properties in Canada. The Company is in the process of exploring its mineral properties.
Cloudera offers enterprises a new data platform built on the Apache Hadoop open-source software package. Hadoop is a data-management platform that can consolidate data in a single repository for comprehensive…
Initial State is an Internet of Things (IoT) data analytics & data management platform company. We turn sensor and event data into information that matters by making it easy to…
* All dates and time are being displayed in Eastern Standard Time (EST).