Home » Format » News » Shinhan Bank and Streami to launch Bitcoin remittance service
South Korea’s Shinhan Bank is launching a Bitcoin remittance service between Korea and China. The service will be available in December this year.
Hong Kong will act as an intermediary (as digital currency transactions are legally permitted there). Shinhan Bank will transfer value to a digital currently exchange in Hong Kong, which will convert it to bitcoin and further the transaction to a Chinese exchange, where the value will be converted to local currency.
This is a temporary solution as Bitcoin is not considered a legal tender in South Korea at present. The country’s authorities are looking to introduce the legislation for cryptocurrencies next year.
The platform is built by Shinhan Bank’s IT arm, Shinhan Data Systems, in partnership with local fintech start-up Streami, which specialises in blockchain remittance solutions. Shinhan Bank is also an investor in Streami – it participated in the start-up’s seed funding round in December 2015. Streami raised $2 million, of which around $425,000 was from Shinhan Bank.
Shinhan Financial Group is one of the largest financial services players in Korea. It has over 28 million customers, 13,400 employees and $260 billion in assets. The bank operates via 900+ domestic branches and outlets plus 140 branches across 19 countries worldwide.
Tags; Bitcoin, China, cryptocurrency, digital currency, Hong Kong, Remittances, Shinhan Bank, South Korea, Streami, Banking Tech, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Digital Banking, Innovation, News, Partnerships
Stellar Development Foundation is offering sponsorships for fintech start-ups, and those who educate developers or represent an NGO. Sponsorship is available in the forms of “lumens” – Stellar’s unit of digital currency, similar to a Bitcoin. The firm says its goal is to support new products and ideas, and for those enabling that goal via […]
Tags; crypto currency, digital currency, FinTech, Stellar Development Foundation, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Innovation, News, Start-ups
Here is a boringly good guide to cryptocurrencies, courtesy of MBNA. It is not boring at all really!
Tags; Bitcoin, cryptocurrency, digital currency, FinTech, MBNA, Remitsy, Zerocash, Zerocoin, Banking Tech, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Digital Banking, Innovation, News
Toronto-based payments start-up nanoPay has completed its $10 million Series A funding round. With this financing and the MintChip platform, which nanoPay recently acquired from The Royal Canadian Mint, it is developing new business partnerships to “expand the global utility and acceptance” of MintChip. Laurence Cooke, CEO and founder of nanoPay, says its focus is […]
Tags; digital currency, FinTech, innovation, MintChip, nanoPay, Canada, Digital Banking, Funding, News, Payments, Start-ups
Blockchain has been hailed as a disruptive force capable of revolutionising the banking sector. While this may be the case to some extent, the impact may be overstated when it comes to wider back office operations, argues Paul Westgate, product manager at Linedata. In the clamour to proclaim blockchain, and those cryptocurrencies built on blockchain technology, […]
Receive FREE Banking Technology news alerts straight to your inbox Sign me up
It’s infographics time! A great compilation of fintech companies, showing how we’ve gone from graph paper to personal data algorithms – and everything in between.
Tags; Choice Loans, FinTech, infographics, Banking Tech, Digital Banking, Features, Innovation, Mobile, News, Payments, Software-as-a-Service, Start-ups
In her new column for Banking Technology, Devie Mohan, a fintech market strategist, looks at how Singapore has created a fintech ecosystem that is a major threat to the ones in London and Berlin.
About us Contact us Editorial calendar Advertise with us Sign up to our Daily News Digest Jobs Privacy policy Cookies Policy