Former Palm Beach County School Board member Mike Murgio to plead guilty in bribery case - Sun Sentinel
Sign up for The Power Lunch: Florida Politics newsletter - our must-read, weekday roundup of Florida political news and buzz >>
Former Palm Beach County School Board member Mike Murgio to plead guilty in bribery case
Former Palm Beach County School Board member Mike Murgio to plead guilty in bribery case
Former Palm Beach County School Board member Mike Murgio plans to plead guilty Thursday to a felony charge in a bribery case, according to a letter filed by federal prosecutors in federal court in New York.
Federal officials accused Murgio, 65, in April of playing a role in a digital-currency scheme that helped international hackers extort money. The case is unrelated to Murgio's role at the School Board, from which he resigned shortly after being indicted.
Murgio is pleading guilty to making a false statement to the New Jersey National Credit Union, which was not one of the original charges, said his lawyer, Stuart Kaplan. He had been charged with conspiracy to make corrupt payments with intent to influence an officer of a financial institution and making corrupt payments. Those charges will be dropped as part of the plea deal, Kaplan said.
The false statement felony carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison, but Kaplan said he's hopeful Murgio will get only probation. Kaplan said he expects Murgio to be sentenced in mid-January.
"He has a very unblemished record of devoting his entire life to education and charity work for the community," Kaplan said. "Mr. Murgio regrets this lapse in judgment and has accepted full responsibility for his actions. He is looking forward to putting this chapter of his life behind him."
Murgio worked in the Palm Beach County School District for more than four decades, starting as a teacher at Lake Park Elementary in 1973. He was later promoted to principal and worked several roles in district administration. In the 1990s, he became principal of Inlet Grove High School, a technical school in Riviera Beach, which converted into a charter school in 2004.
The West Palm Beach resident was elected to the northern School Board seat in 2012, where he became a strong advocate for school choice. He had proposed allowing students to attend any school in the district where there's room, an idea supported by the Legislature. The new requirement will take effect next school year.
Murgio's tenure on the board was not without controversy. In November, an investigation concluded his "undue influence" over a new bus routing system contributed to a meltdown that made thousands of students late to school in the first few weeks of classes.
But it was his activities outside of his School Board duties that landed him in trouble with federal authorities. Murgio was accused of bribing the chairman of a New Jersey-based credit union to help hide illegal profits made by a bitcoin-transferring business called Coin.mx. Bitcoins are an electronic form of currency.
Murgio's son, Anthony, who is accused of running the bitcoin business, had been indicted earlier on multiple charges, including federal money laundering and operating an unlicensed money transmitting business. His case is expected to go to trial.
New York prosecutors say Murgio and his son, along with Yuri Lebedev, wanted to gain control of the credit union in 2014 as part of the ongoing money-laundering scheme, authorities said.
According to a complaint filed in U.S. District Court of the Southern District of New York, Anthony Murgio and Lebedev knew the money they were taking from their clients was obtained through illegal means. Authorities also allege the two knew they were supposed to register their business with the federal government, but never did.
Federal authorities said Anthony Murgio tried to hide the nature of his business and the source of his funds.
Part of that cover-up included bribing Trevon Gross — who is also named in the indictment — to get control of the Helping Other People Excel Federal Credit Union in New Jersey, according to the indictment. The credit union was originally designed for low-income clients, officials said.
Both Anthony and Mike Murgio are accused of bribing Gross, the chairman of the board of directors for the credit union, to obtain positions on the board.
Authorities said Gross accepted the bribes and members of the bitcoin company were placed onto the board, though they do not say explicitly who. All of the bribes amounted to $150,000, officials said.
Murgio will make his plea during a 2 p.m. hearing in New York, according to the prosecutor's letter.
You’ve read 1 of 10 stories this month. Subscribe to get 50% off unlimited access for 1 year, cancel anytime. Sale ends 11/30.