Deribit, the only trade platform that offers both plain vanilla options on Bitcoin and futures with margin has eliminated trading fees.
AMSTERDAM, Oct. 29, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Deribit, the only full-featured Bitcoin futures and options platform has announced the removal of all trading fees for the remainder of 2016.
"We want to introduce our platform to anyone interested in Bitcoin futures and options trading,"
"So we decided to offer free trading until the end of the year,"
Trading plain vanilla European style cash-settled options on the Deribit BTC index with margin.
Trading BTC futures that settle on the Deribit BTC index, with up to 20x leverage.
Allowance for placing volatility orders, where the Deribit price engine continuously updates the price of the order as to keep the implied volatility of the order fixed. With this feature, basic market making is already possible for any trader opening an account on the platform.
Real-time risk management with incremental auto-liquidation: If an account has a maintenance margin higher than its equity, the Deribit risk engine will liquidate its position in small steps, providing maximal protection for all parties involved. Liquidations are small and instantaneous, again ensuring fairness for everyone.
A 100BTC insurance fund to cover bankruptcies. Any bankruptcy is published in real time on the platform. Deribit aims to completely avoid socialized losses. The platform's risk management system is built in such a way that it is extremely difficult to go bankrupt even if one tries to do so.
Trading via REST, Websockets API or FIX bridge. High-performance API that can handle even hundreds of requests per second from a single account.
The removal of trading fees on Deribit for rest of the year now allows traders to make more than usual profits. Interested traders can register here.
Deribit is a Bitcoin-only derivatives exchange for vanilla options and futures trading. Deribit has been created as an answer to those in search for a professional fully dedicated (vanilla) Bitcoin options trading platform; a service that can create a fully liquid marketplace with the same standards as a normal derivatives market.
Deribit is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only. The information does not constitute investment advice or an offer to invest.
This content was issued through the press release distribution service at Newswire.com. For more info visit: http://www.newswire.com
Copyright © 2016 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Cision company.