The Winklevoss Bitcoin ETF: Another Step Closer To Public Listing - Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust ETF (Pending:COIN) | Seeking Alpha
Winklevoss Capital continues to make progress in launching the first bitcoin ETF in the U.S.
The Bitcoin Trust/ETF structure promises to provide investors with easy exposure to the nascent cryptocurrency.
Others are laying the groundwork to follow quickly, so there will be competitive ETFs in the market, once regulators approve.
Private investors Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, who famously received $65 million in cash and stock as part of a 2008 settlement from Facebook (NASDAQ:FB), are making progress in their attempt to create the first Bitcoin ETF in the U.S.
The twins originally filed a registration statement with the SEC in July 2013 to create the Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust to be traded as an ETF under the symbol COIN.
Bitcoin, or BTC, is a digital cryptocurrency that utilizes distributed general ledger technology called "blockchain" to help insure security for trading of the currency between anonymous parties.
The Trust would be the actual purchaser of bitcoin and issue bitcoin shares, "which represent units of fractional undivided beneficial interest in and ownership of the Trust."
COIN ETF originally intended to float 1 million shares at a price of $20 per share to purchase that ownership interest in the Trust.
Since that original filing in 2013 when each bitcoin was valued at under $100, the proposed share price has risen to its current $65, with BTC currently trading around $626.
The purpose of the ETF is to enable the general public, hedge funds and other traders to obtain exposure to the BTC currency, similar in Gold ETFs, as the Winklevoss brothers have stated:
People who believe that- for example, people who like gold as a store of value. If you like gold, there's many reasons why you should like Bitcoin. If you sort of go across the board, Bitcoin's more durable. It's more portable. It's more divisible. It's more storable. So really, the question you have to ask yourself is, Do I believe Bitcoin is the future of payments? If the answer is yes, then you can own a piece of that, just like you can own a piece of Google or Amazon back 10, 15 years ago.