Michael del Castillo (@DelRayMan) | Published on November 9, 2016 at 18:40 GMT
The former partner at Manatt, Phelps & Phillips started her new position at Baker Hostetler earlier this month.
While Van Cleef will continue her previous focus working with bank compliance issues and cryptocurrency, she tells CoinDesk her new employer has hosted several meetings with people helping US President-elect Donald Trump transition to power.
"I'll be heading the FinTech practice and continue to have a huge focus on virtual currencies and blockchain technology."
Van Cleef began her new job on 1st November, after spending almost three years at Manatt. Previously, she founded anti-money laundering and OFAC compliance trading firm, Comptegrity, for which she still serves as chairman.
Over the past year, she has also helped develop the Uniform Law Commission's efforts to draft a legal framework for virtual currencies, and earlier this month she was one of 50 attorneys to join launch the Digital Currency and Ledger Defense Coalition.
At Manatt, her compliance practice had focused largely on helping companies understand the USA Patriot Act, BSA and OFAC regulations.
BakerHostetler was founded in 1916, and currently employs about 900 partners and associates. The firm specializes in litigation, business, employment, intellectual property and tax law.
According to an Intercept report yesterday, the firm had hosted "regular" meetings of Trump for America Inc, a non-profit group chaired by New Jersey governor Chris Christie, as part of an effort to help oversee the Trump transition.
An earlier version of this article based on the conversation with Van Cleef reported that Baker Hostetler was representing Trump's transition team. A representative of the company called CoinDesk to clarify, "We’re not representing the transition team."
Ledger Labs' Josh Stark seeks to provide a high-level framework for understanding the potential of nascent blockchain governance applications.
The IRS is seeking user records from Coinbase as part of a taxpayer investigation.
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
CoinDesk spotlights ongoing efforts inside the top securities regulator in the US to better understand – and adapt to – advances in blockchain…
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact