FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
MGT Capital Investments, Inc. announced that it has begun to implement phase two of its bitcoin operation that is scheduled to expand its processing power to over five PetaHash by the end of the fourth quarter, this year.
According to the official announcement, MGT has updated its shareholders on its fully-owned large-scale bitcoin mining operation in central Washington State. The company has mined more than 90 bitcoins and is pleased to have delivered on the metrics that was outlined on 13th September 2016.
"I wish to thank our shareholders for the positive feedback we have received since completing the first phase of our Bitcoin project. Our machines have been working flawlessly at full potential with a very high level of efficiency. We are excited and ready for the expansion of this activity as we implement the second planned phase," Robert Collazo, Director of Operations for MGT's Bitcoin mining operations said.
The strategy has been successfully implemented by MGT in order to maximize profits from mining operations. This is done by capitalizing on low-cost hydroelectricity and making use of proprietary software to optimize and manage its machine performances.
Additionally, the company is making use of state-of-the-art 16 nanometer ASIC chips and more efficient power supplies, thus further reducing the power requirements of mining operations.
"The cash flow opportunity in the Bitcoin market provides tremendous financial benefit to our operations and balance sheet. At our current output, we believe MGT is one of the top five Bitcoin miners in the U.S., and we believe our first quarter 2017 goal of 10 PetaHash for this facility would place MGT in a leadership position in the global Bitcoin network,” John McAfee, Executive Chairman of MGT stated.
Earlier in July, MGT revealed the details of the initial phase of a large-scale bitcoin mining operation to establish the company as a leader in blockchain technologies.
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close below 14.01 targets 14.70 - EconoTimes
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
240m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
240m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
241m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
241m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
241m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
FxWirePro: AUD/NZD bulls in intermediated trend rebuild positive momentum, major trend drives in non-directional, upswings implied by interest rate
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more