http://www.itweb.co.za/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=156744
SA banks, Strate set up blockchain network | ITWeb
FREE NEWSLETTERS
IT DIRECTORY
NEWS ALERTS
RSS
NEWS TIP-OFFS
ADD TO FAVOURITES
SECTION SPONSOR
CO-SPONSOR
GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE
HOME
OPINION
IN DEPTH
PUBLICATIONS
SURVEYS
JOBS
SERVICES
EVENTS
VIDEO
ABOUT
SCIENCE FORUM SA
       - By sector
        Access Control
      ITWeb Africa
      Apps
      Audio and Video
      Barcodes and RFID
   BPM and Workflow
      Broadband
            Business
      Business Applications
      Business Continuity Management
      Business Intelligence
            CA Symposium 2016
   
      Career Moves
      Cellular
      CIO Zone
      Channel
      Cloud Computing
      Consulting and IT Services
      Contact Centres and CRM
      Content Capture and Management
            Data Management
      Desktops and Notebooks
      Digital Life
      Digital Economy
      Digital Office Solutions
      eBooks
      Electronic Billing and Marketing
      Emerging Technologies
      Enterprise
      Enterprise Architecture
      Enterprise Solutions
      Financial
            Governance, Risk and Compliance
      Green IT
      Hardware
      HR and Payroll
      ICT Management
      Industry Solutions
      Infographics
      Innovations
      Internet
      IT in Banking
      IT in Government
   IT in Healthcare
   ITWeb Africa
      Legal View
      Malware
      Mobile Business
      Networking
      Open Source
      Outsourcing & Managed Services
      Printing and Imaging
      Project Management
      Retail Technology
      Reviews
   
      Risk Management
      Security
         Security Summit 2016
            Social Media
      Smart Computing
      SME
      Software
      Software Development and Testing
      Start-ups
      Storage
      Tech Forum
      Telecoms
      Tender Watch
      Training and e-Learning
      Unified Communications
      Virtualisation
      VOIP
   Webinars
   White Papers
     Wireless
     BUSINESS
CHANNEL
COMPUTING
ENTERPRISE
FINANCIAL
HARDWARE
INTERNET
NETWORKING
SECURITY
SOFTWARE
TELECOMS
    VIRTUAL PRESS OFFICES™
    
    COMPANY ZONES
      Advertise on ITWeb         Sat, 26 Nov, 05:17:43 AM
SA banks, Strate set up blockchain network
By Matthew Burbidge
Johannesburg, 17 Oct 2016
Read in this storyKeeping ‘close'Getting going
SA's financial institutions appear to be seriously investigating blockchain technology.
South Africa's largest banks, along with Strate, the country's central securities depository, have set up a blockchain network among themselves.
This was announced at a Strate blockchain conference in Johannesburg last week.
Strate provides electronic settlement of equities and bonds transactions concluded on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The working group has representatives from Nedbank, FirstRand, Absa, Investec and Standard Bank. The Reserve Bank (SARB) and the Financial Services Board are also present in observer roles.
The participation of the Reserve Bank is significant in that in the past it has viewed blockchain, or at least bitcoin, with suspicion, advising consumers in a statement in 2014 that it had "no legal status or regulatory framework, and poses risks for those who choose to transact with it".
  See also
Banks adopt blockchain 'dramatically fast'
Accenture breaks blockchain taboo with editing system
Blockchain network
Strate
Arif Ismail, head of oversight at the SARB, said being part of the working group had given the bank the opportunity to understand and learn what the underlying technologies were.
A blockchain is a distributed ledger that records and manages the transfer and ownership of assets. The assets can be anything: shares, equities, bonds, or something more corporeal, such as a property or vehicle.
The working group has now established a private blockchain, set up in a matter of weeks among its members, and has exchanged assets using a distributed ledger. Some advantages of using a blockchain include faster transactions as well as lower costs.
Keeping ‘close'
"[None of the stakeholders] wants to be left behind," said Ismail. "Everyone wants to get their hands on what's going on with blockchains and distributed ledgers. And some of the concepts are not that simple. So, from a regulator's perspective, it's imperative that we keep close to what's going on."
He said in the past, there was often a substantial lag between innovation and regulation.
"This time around, given how fast things are changing in the market, you probably want something called ‘just in time regulation', and the only way to achieve that is to keep as close as possible."
By way of international use cases, Ismail said the Australian Securities Exchange was investigating ledger technology to assist banks with post-trade clearing and settlement. Another example was the Bank of America and Merril Lynch, which were testing a blockchain with the Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore to digitise the exchange of letters of credit.
Getting going
While it seems unlikely that a blockchain solution is going to be implemented any time soon in the South African financial markets, the institutions appear to be seriously investigating the technology.
Tanya Knowles, executive director of Fractal Solutions, a division of Strate, said getting the banks and regulators to cooperate had been a "massive effort".
Knowles said while the institutions had been keen to be part of the initiative, the focus so far had been on peripheral use cases instead of core ones, but she was hopeful the participants would eventually take bigger steps as they progressed on the blockchain journey.
Farzam Ehsani, leader of Rand Merchant Bank's blockchain initiative, used the example of the post office which once had a monopoly on sending written communication between parties. While the post office hadn't adapted to new technology, members of the working group saw the widespread adoption of blockchain as an inevitable progression and one that would require them to adjust their business models.
He added the World Economic Forum predicted that within a decade, 10% of the world's GDP would be registered on blockchains.
Ehsani said if there was a possibility to reduce costs, improve access and financial inclusion for South Africans, "why wouldn't we do that?"
"Who are we as a consortium to restrict use cases? Open it up, let people issue their own IOUs, their own paper, whatever they want. My personal belief is that in the future it will be rare that assets will not be on the blockchain. Let's get the platform going."
33

Subscribe to our
newsletter
Subscribe to
Brainstorm
Download our
mobile apps

Our comments policy does not allow anonymous postings. Read the policy here


WHITEPAPERS
Global DDOS mitigation
The demand for distributed denial-of-service mitigation solutions is growing rapidly.
Securing cloud applications and services
The influx of personally owned devices, ubiquitous high-speed Internet connectivity and cloud-based applications is redefining the enterprise network.

BEST READ GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE
Google CEO to meet with EU anti-trust chief
Telecoms dept finalises appointment of new DG
SASSA lambasted for irregular expenditure
Access public, private cloud services through a single pane of glass
RELATED ARTICLES
How to survive digital disruption
Young Jozi start-ups address the unmapped
SPL extends Lenovo channel portfolio
RDR, FAIS and robo-advice
COMPANY NEWS
BUSINESS
Mint Group CEO stands out
Silversoft wins Deltek Project Excellence Partner Award
The Innovation Hub announces winners
SOFTWARE
Resonance app delivers smarter service, better control
TELECOMS
Activate-Telecoms offers #BlackFriday deal
CHANNEL
Pinnacle partners with Cibecs
  VIDEOS
SPONSORED
Radware’s Hybrid Cloud DDoS Attack Mitigation Demo
EVENTS
The IITPSA President’s Awards 2016
EVENTS
IBM z Systems Executive Forum
EVENTS
View from the Top - what CEOs expect from their CIOs
COMMENT
ON THIS
SEND TO
A FRIEND
QUICK
PRINT
FOLLOW US
ON TWITTER
FOLLOW US
ON LINKEDIN
FOLLOW US
ON FACEBOOK
SUBSCRIBE TO
NEWSLETTER
TRANSACTIONS
TradeSwitch is a next-generation electronic product distribution, transaction management and mobile payment service delivery platform.
RISKS
DATA EXPLOSION - Data is everywhere. We assist organisations to mitigate data risks. Read more.
SOLUTION
Boost your profit and cloud ERP expertise with the world’s fastest-growing true cloud ERP.
     J2 Software is focused on providing our clients world class solutions which are both comprehensive and easy to manage. The J2 Software solution offerings allow you to track, monitor and control all activity across your environment.
BEST READ
Local firms splurge on software
Wipro to buy Appirio for $500m
Tale of two companies
Twists and turns in smartphone war
SA banks find mobile money formula
Mobile data disappoints once again
Elevating business intelligence
Renewables prove way cheaper than fossil fuels
FNB app gets an update
ICT White Paper 'creates telecoms monopoly'
AFRICA
Cost reduction not MNO's responsibility alone says Telkom boss
Africa: almost US$70-bn in mobile revenue by 2021
Zim consumers demand action on high data prices
Adapt IT CEO named IT Personality of the Year
Nigeria ready to spend billions on ICT importation
Cyber Ransom Survival Guide
How to engage with your insurance customer
Digitally transform the way you work
Transforming customer engagement: making first impressions last
Radware presents DDOS handbook
Sponsored links
PUBLICATIONS
ITWeb's Corporate IT Training Guide
  South Africa's ultimate training reference.
  Click here to download your FREE copy TODAY!
16 & 17 May 2017 | Vodacom World, Midrand
Agenda
 Training Speakers Sponsor
International Keynote:
"I don't care how big you build the wall. I don't care how wide that moat is. I don't care if it's on fire with flame retardant crocodiles. It's just not going to work anymore, because they're (the hackers) paratrooping in," says Jayson Street, Infosec Ranger, Pwnie Express
Take advantage of our early bird fee
R 6,460.00 ex VAT - register NOW!
PLATINUM SPONSOR
Contact us Advertise Newsletters Terms of use Privacy policy itnews Twitter Facebook Google+ LinkedIn YouTube Google Play iTunes RSS
Copyright (c) 1996 - 2016 ITWeb Limited. All rights reserved.
Would you like to see your news here? Contact us for more details at itnews@itweb.co.za