http://www.digitaltrends.com/web/switzerland-making-bitcoin-available-train-station-sbb/
Railway Ticket Machines in Switzerland Will Soon Sell Bitcoin | Digital Trends
DT
Digital Trends
PRODUCT REVIEWS
NEWS
FEATURES
VIDEOS
DEALS
SHOP
GIVEAWAYS
MORE
Home > Web > Bitcoin will soon be available for purchase on…
BITCOIN WILL SOON BE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE ON SWISS RAILWAY TICKET MACHINES
By Harrison Kaminsky — October 30, 2016 1:21 PM
1
52
Steve Garfield/Flickr
DON'T FALL BEHIND
Stay current with a recap of today's Tech News from Digital Trends
You're Killing Your iPhone With These 7 Charging Mistakes
Thrillist.com
7 Reasons You Should Quit Facebook in 2016
Mensjournal.com
Increased Sightings of Two-Headed Sharks Baffle Scientists
Aol.com
Powered By ZergNet
With the demand for Bitcoin increasing in Switzerland, the country is taking steps to allow its citizens to easily obtain the digital currency.
Starting Nov. 11, customers on the Swiss railway will be able to trade their Swiss francs for Bitcoins on ticket machines. While people will be able to buy Bitcoin, train tickets will not be available for purchase using the digital money.
The SBB, Switzerland’s national rail service, told the BBC it had been testing demand for Bitcoin across the country, resulting in a decision to launch the service, which will serve as a two-year pilot project to start. While purchase of Bitcoins will be relatively simple, buyers would have to enter their cell phone number for security and identification purchases, and people will only be able to spend 500 Swiss Francs per transaction.
“One Bitcoin currently equals around 708.64 Swiss Francs, but it is possible to buy fractions of the currency,” the BBC said.
Related: Creating cryptocurrency: A crash course in mining Bitcoin
The BBC reported that SweePay, a Swiss financial services company, will make the transactions possible by lending its conversion service to the SBB machines.
The SBB told the BBC that before it begins offering the Bitcoin purchasing service on Nov. 11, there have been few possibilities to obtain Bitcoins in Switzerland.
“With its 1,000-plus ticket machines, SBB operates a dense, around-the-clock distribution network that’s suited for more than just ticket sales,” the SBB said.
Because purchasing Bitcoins through bank accounts and alternative methods results in higher fees for international transactions as well as a delay before funds arrive, the SBB service provides a positive alternative to would-be Bitcoin buyers.
“Bitcoin — the world’s first digital currency — has drawn interest as a way to move money around rapidly, without fees or bank involvement,” the BBC said. “Transfers are handled directly between users on the internet.”
Around The Web
Powered By ZergNet
Whatever Happened to the Guy Who Sang Gangnam Style?
Nickiswift.com
The Man That Single Handedly Ruined Megan Fox's Career
Looper.com
Why Hollywood Won't Cast Jennifer Love Hewitt Anymore
Looper.com
Actors Who Ruined Their Career in a Matter of Seconds
Looper.com
9 Battery Killing Mistakes You're Making Right Now
Grunge.com
Proof That 'Alaskan Bush People' is Totally Fake
Nickiswift.com
DON'T FALL BEHIND
Stay current with a recap of today's Tech News from Digital Trends
Send me weekly deals too
No thanks, I'd rather not get a daily recap
Close