http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/08/bitcoin-swiss-bank-transparency/
Bitcoin May as Well Impart Transparency into Swiss Banks - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
06:03 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin May as Well Impart Transparency into Swiss Banks
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News



Implementation of Bitcoin and blockchain technology may help Swiss Banks turn more transparent and accountable.
The increasing popularity of cryptocurrencies has got Bitcoin making inroads into the mainstream financial ecosystem. With more people using Bitcoin as a medium of exchange and store of value, there are concerns of digital currency being used by wealthy individuals for tax evasion, money-laundering, and other illegal activities. Among few circles, Bitcoin has been equated to the Swiss bank accounts, which were once well-known for privacy and anonymity (more like pseudonymity).
Being a decentralized cryptocurrency, Bitcoin enjoys no interference from any third party organizations or governments. This very feature makes it a popular financial instrument to circumvent various regulatory restrictions. However, the privacy and “anonymity” associated with Bitcoin is in no way comparable with that of Swiss bank accounts.
The transparent nature of Bitcoin blockchain, combined with some of the latest blockchain analysis software makes Bitcoin transactions more accountable than fiat transactions. Making the digital currency users and platforms more accountable, governments and regulatory bodies across many nations are increasingly forcing Bitcoin companies to implement stringent AML and KYC policies.
The increasing prominence of Bitcoin has also got mainstream banking sector looking into its adoption. Few online-only banking institutions like Fidor bank have already taken a Bitcoin-friendly stance. In addition, some of the leading banking and financial institutions are also looking into the creation of Bitcoin backed Exchange Traded Funds and Tracker Certificates. These instruments represent a confluence between traditional financial and cryptocurrency ecosystems.
Bitcoin clearly has the potential to work together with the existing financial system, ensuring a certain level of privacy along with increasing transparency and accountability. But the same can’t be said about other cryptocurrencies like Monero and ZCash which promises high levels of privacy and anonymity.
The very nature of Bitcoin blockchain has been the driving force behind the adoption of distributed ledger technology by banking and financial institutions. In the coming days, Swiss banks, under pressure from governments and with the implementation of blockchain technology will soon lose the tag of being exclusive, private and anonymous.
Ref: Investopedia | Image: Shutterstock
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.