http://citifmonline.com/2016/10/28/bitcoin-introduction-to-spur-growth-of-digital-transactions/
Bitcoin introduction to spur growth of digital transactions | Ghana News
GET IN TOUCH
                Go to...
 Home
 Business
 Politics
 Elections
 Sport
 Showbiz
 Odd But True
 Opinion
 Relationship 
    – Lifestyle
 Infographics
 Photo Gallery
 TV
Bitcoin introduction to spur growth of digital transactions
Friday 28th October , 2016 9:08 am
 6  2  0    0  10
Acclaimed computer scientist Prof Nii Narku Quaynor has told Citi Business News the introduction of Bitcoin in Ghana will help spur the growth of a cashless society in Ghana.
Bitcoin was introduced in Ghana in February 2016 as part of measures to enhance and promote a cashless society.
Bitcoin, a type of digital currency is used to pay for things without a third-party broker, like a bank or government.
It also helps in transacting money through the internet at a simple and fast rate.
Speaking to Citi Business News at the sidelines of the 3rd Ghana E-Commerce Expo and Summit in Accra Prof Nii Narku Quaynor, who is also the Chairman of Ghana Dot Com Limited, said technological advancement will also support bitcoin’s growth and value.
“So Ghana on February 6th 2016 this year began actually being one of the few that participates in the process of solving the puzzle that supports the currency to maintain its value. It’s the first in Africa because everyone seems to think its too difficult and its dominated by the Asians in particular China.
But I also think that if you want confidence to be built in the digital currency then we should all start building some and if we are doing it then we will have confidence in the currency and then the currency can be freely used on the internet.
It is digital money so it’s even better than your mobile money and even better than your credit card because it is natively designed for being used in cyber environments. It’s faster and it’s more under the control of the owner.” he said.
–
By: Jessica Ayorkor Aryee/citibusinessnews.com/Ghana
 6  2  0    0  10
MORE ON CITIFMONLINE.COM
Auditor General validating pension for unions – Seth Tekper
November 25, 2016
Finatrade’s GHc1 billion debt won’t collapse banks –Finance Minister
November 25, 2016
Black Friday deals pick up at retail shops in Accra
November 25, 2016
BoG Governor, Chief of Staff grace OmniBank launch [photos]
November 25, 2016
ADB IPO takes off, pegs price at 2 cedis 65 pesewas
November 24, 2016
Over 1,500 jobs to be created through FDIs
November 24, 2016
ADVERTISEMENT
RECENT POSTS
TTAG threatens government over feeding grant delays
EC releases list of special voting centres
Amidu counters Woyome’s ‘frivolous’ application
Effutu chiefs apologise to Nana Addo over ‘simpa panyin’ comment
Ex-assembly members cry over unpaid ex-gratia
Florence Henderson: Brady Bunch matriarch dies at 82
Mahama opens new septic treatment plant at Lavender Hill[Photos]
No mercy for election day ‘troublemakers’ – Police
Scrutiny for phone book harvesting apps
Football sex abuse claims: More former players speak out
FIND US ON FACEBOOK
© Copyright 2016 | citifmonline.com | All Rights Reserved.