http://www.coindesk.com/united-nations-blockchain-remittances/
United Nations Lab Testing Blockchain for Remittances - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$729
$734
$739
USD -0.01%
$738.23
CNY 0.17%
¥5,193.32
EUR €696.81
GBP £591.42
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
NEWS
United Nations Lab Testing Blockchain for Remittances
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 6, 2016 at 13:43 GMT
NEWS
9,027
275
1
The worldwide development network for the United Nations is pursuing a series of blockchain-focused projects.
Through its Alternative Financing Lab, an effort launched last year, the United Nations Development Programme is looking into applications in microfinance, remittances and connected vehicles, among others.
That work was quietly detailed last month in a UNDP blog post, penned by members of the Alternative Financing Lab. The lab said it was partnering with developers in Serbia and Moldova, among other regions, on blockchain projects, and indicated that it planned to expand these efforts in the months ahead.
Of particular interest, according to the post, is the use of blockchain for exchanging funds.
Lab representatives wrote:
“When it comes to UNDP’s emergency response in employment, we have a hunch that blockchain could provide a more effective way of transferring and tracking funds, and shifting our strategy in line with what is happening in the field – this is a work in progress though but one we’re excited about.”
Last month’s blog post isn’t the first time the UNDP has expressed its interest in the technology for use in cash transfers. In May, the organization said that it was looking for partners to develop a bitcoin-based money delivery system.
“The global development field needs access to an entity or system that is scalable, secure, flexible, cost efficient and sustainable in the long run,” it said at the time.
Nor is the the lab the only part of the UN’s global community that is looking at possible blockchain applications. Earlier this year, the United Nations Children’s Fund began soliciting pitches for related projects, and in August announced that it was hunting for a point person on blockchain.
Image Credit: Arnaldo Jr / Shutterstock.com
United NationsUnited Nations Development Programme
9,027
275
1
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Federal Reserve Governor to Address Blockchain in New Speech
NEXT ARTICLE
Scaling Bitcoin Preview: 5 Talks to Watch at Bitcoin's Big...
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
NEWS
Nov 23, 2016 at 12:35 | Stan Higgins
Uganda Takes its First Steps Toward Bitcoin Regulation
A UN organization focused on criminal justice issues organized a meeting on bitcoin and digital currencies this past summer in Uganda.
NEWS
Nov 15, 2016 at 00:01 | Stan Higgins
UNICEF Just Invested in its First Blockchain Startup
The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has invested in a South African blockchain startup as part of a broader technology innovation push.
NEWS
Oct 13, 2016 at 18:10 | Stan Higgins
UN Considers Blockchain in Search for Sustainability Solutions
Blockchain is set to be discussed during a meeting at the United Nations today centered on sustainable development.
NEWS
Aug 1, 2016 at 21:25 | Stan Higgins
Children's Aid Organization UNICEF Seeks Blockchain Lead
The United Nations Children's Fund is seeking a software developer and consultant who can help shape the organization's blockchain strategy.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.