http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/10/bitcoin-services-unaffected-turkey-restricting-internet-access/
Bitcoin Services Unaffected By Turkey Restricting Internet Access
25-11-2016
11:08 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Services Unaffected By Turkey Restricting Internet Access
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, News, Opinion
54



A bigger question is whether or not the Turkish government will block access to Bitcoin platforms in the future. It is becoming evident they want nothing more than wall-off the Internet as China is doing.
Turkey is on the road to blocking a lot of popular online services. Internet users can no longer access OneDrive, GitHub, and DropBox. This artificial blockade has gone into effect as of last Saturday, and there is no indication as to how long how it will last. It may only be a matter of time until the government turns its attention towards Bitcoin services.
According to unconfirmed sources, the reason for this blockade has to do with an alleged hacking incident. Redhack, a collective of hackers, claim they breached Turkey’s Minister of Energy and Resources’ email account. For now, it is unclear how blocking GitHub, OneDrive, and Dropbox will do to solve this problem, though.
Turkey Aims To Control The Internet
Several major Turkish ISPs have adhered to implementing this online blockade. TTNet, Turkcell, and Uydunet are three of the country’s’ largest ISPS, all of whom restricted access to these services. Smaller providers may still be able to access these services, although that may only be a matter of time.
It is not the first time Turkish ISPs are forced to block specific services and platforms, though. Several individuals are wondering whether or not Turkey should develop alternatives for American online services. Whether or not a Turkish GitHub, which would be only accessible to that country, is a good idea, remains to be seen.
Centralized platforms and solutions continue to cause inherent problems. Governments and ISPs can easily restrict access to platforms without much effort. While their decisions affect millions of users, that is not their concern by the looks of it. Decentralizing the Internet and popular services would be a great way to circumvent these potential blockades, although it is not easy to do so.
A bigger question is whether or not the Turkish government will block access to Bitcoin platforms in the future. It is becoming evident they want nothing more than wall-off the Internet as China is doing. Since Bitcoin is a global financial ecosystem, companies servicing Turkish users may find themselves in hot water over the coming months.
PayPal, another popular online payment method, has seen its fair share in Turkey as well. Although access to the platform was never officially restricted, the company failed to renew its financial license. Company sources indicated this was due to the financial regulators delaying the case and showing no intent of working towards a resolution.
Source: Turkey Blocks
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
51
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×