https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/dont-care-bitcoin-blockchain-says-mastercard-ops-tech-president/
Don’t Care for Bitcoin, Only Blockchain, Says MasterCard President for Operations & Technology - CryptoCoinsNews
Submit a Press Release Advertise Write for CCN News Tips Contact
Explore

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin Blockchain FinTech ETH Learn Free PR Widget
BankingBitcoin OpinionBlockchain News
Don’t Care for Bitcoin, Only Blockchain, Says MasterCard President for Operations & Technology
Samburaj Das on 03/10/2016

Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Rob Reeg, president for operations and technology at multinational payments giant Mastercard has revealed that while the company is invested in blockchain technology, he doesn’t care for Bitcoin.
T
he global payments landscape is primarily dominated by Visa and MasterCard, in that order. In a time where a disruptive new innovation like Bitcoin has already scaled and survived beyond many observers’ expectations, it is perhaps prudent that the giants take notice.
Visa, for instance, summed up 2015 in noting that bitcoin and blockchain became “more real than ever before”, as the year that saw blockchain as an innovation that “the industry has to live with.” The payments leader has also notably sought talent for developing and researching virtual currencies, blockchain and other emerging payment technologies. Furthermore, the company is already pooling in engineers to develop blockchain technology, with one proof-of-concept already seeking participants among European banks.
Meanwhile, Mastercard also has a track record in acknowledging bitcoin and blockchain technology, in its own way. A notable instance of telling insight on the way MasterCard views bitcoin came to the fore when the payments company responded to an official UK Government public call for information on digital currencies.
“[W]e would argue that, when compared to Mastercard’s network, the claims pertaining to the speed and safety for digital currencies does not hold up,” MasterCard wrote in response. The company also questioned the security of the bitcoin blockchain and argued that the current network of global transactions go through a regulated environment, instead of relying on a “block chain” process. Suffice to say, MasterCard doesn’t think much of Bitcoin, from its downbeat response to the UK government’s call to garner insights and opinions on digital currencies, last year.
That dismissive outlook toward Bitcoin hasn’t changed and seemingly permeates among the top executive channels in the company. During an interview with Indian publication the Business Standard, Rob Reeg, MasterCard president for operations and technology, was asked about blockchain technology and Mastercard’s endeavors with the technology, if any.
To this, Reeg answered:
It is an interesting technology and we are working on it. I personally don’t care about Bitcoin, but I do care about blockchain technology.
The dismissive take on bitcoin coincides with that of a prominent Wall Street executive, JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon, who has previously stated that bitcoin wasn’t going anywhere, further labelling the cryptocurrency a waste of time on a separate occasion.
While unsolicited, Reeg’s flat denial of bitcoin was followed by the revelation that MasterCard was working on two blockchain pilot projects, one a combination of private and public (permissioned and permission-less) blockchain, the other a private blockchain. Perhaps revealing further insights into why a public blockchain, like bitcoin, wasn’t in the list of priorities for Mastercard, Reeg stated:
For [a] company like us, while managing people’s money and information, [the] security aspect of blockchain is [a] little bit daunting. The idea behind blockchain is unregulated power, but that is never going to be a first choice when the security is [of] concern.
The executive’s opinion about security and the suppposed safety net of regulation comes  during a time that sees financial services institutions fined billions for facilitating money-laundering, swindling money from everyday citizens and racially discriminating against minorities. These instances are a fraction of the banks and financial institutions that were caught, within the past 10 years.
Unregulated power governed by code could be exactly what the world needs.
Featured image from Shutterstock.
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Banking, Bitcoin Opinion, Blockchain News, News Tagged in: mastercard, Rob Reeg

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextKim Dotcom’s Megaupload 2 / Bitcache Fundraiser Only Accepts Bitcoin03/10/2016
PreviousLawyers Unite to Aid Digital Currency Users Face Legal Issues03/10/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.