http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/23/london-banking-bitcoin-contingency/
London Banking Sector Create Bitcoin Contingency Funds against Cyberattacks - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:45 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
London Banking Sector Create Bitcoin Contingency Funds against Cyberattacks
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
79



UK based banking institutions are keeping Bitcoin reserves for potential ransom payouts to hackers in the case of a cyber attack. Read more...
Last week the internet witnessed what could probably be the largest attack till date. Many reputed online services across the world were hit by a DDOS attack, leaving them inaccessible for hours. As cyber threats continue to rise, the banking institutions in London are preparing themselves for the worst case scenario.
The DDoS attack, to which companies like Twitter, Netflix, Spotify, Reddit and more fell victim was found to be launched using a special code. The code executed by unknown hackers is said to have harnessed the power of various internet connected devices to direct the attack through Dyn – an online directory services provider.
READ MORE: PayPal Users Were Unable to Access Funds during to DynDNS Outage
Even though there are no reports of any ransom demands made by the attackers yet, the banking sector is not taking chances. According to a news report, many leading UK banks have started setting up Bitcoin contingency funds to ensure undisrupted service to their customers. These funds will be used to meet the ransom demands by attackers if any were to arise in the near future.
The banks’ move to keep Bitcoin reserves for ransom payouts is not a new thing as few of them have already started that practice since the rise of ransomware attacks. However, the trend has picked up again. Victims of cyber-attacks are usually advised not to pay ransom as it will encourage the hackers to launch repeated attacks and also because there is no guarantee of them relenting once the ransom is paid. However, due to the time sensitive nature of the business, banking and financial institutions don’t want to take chances.
READ MORE: Banks Buy Bitcoin as Ransomware Attacks Wreak Havoc
“The police will concede that they don’t have the resources available to deal with this because of the significant growth in the number of attacks… From a purely pragmatic perspective, financial institutions are now exploring the need to maintain stocks of bitcoin in the unfortunate event that they themselves become the target of a high-intensity attack, when law enforcement perhaps might not be able to assist them at the speed with which they need to put themselves back in business,”
— said Dr. Simon Moores, a former technology ambassador for the UK government and chair of the annual International e-Crime Congress.
The DDoS attacks have improved a lot in the recent months. Currently, attackers can easily launch an attack of over 600 GB/sec at their targets. In the near future, it is expected to increase to at least 1 TB/sec, in which case most of the current day protections against such attacks will be rendered useless.
Ref: Guardian | Image: NewsBTC
  79
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×