http://www.fxpips.com/bitcoin-maintains-strong-rise-amid-differing-theories/
Bitcoin Maintains Strong Rise Amid Differing Theories | FxPips.com
News
Education
Trade Setups
Forex Brokers
Binary Brokers
Bitcoin
Live Charts
Signals
Calendar
/ Bitcoin News / CryptoCurrency News / News / Technical Analysis / Bitcoin Maintains Strong Rise Amid Differing Theories
Bitcoin Maintains Strong Rise Amid Differing Theories
POSTED BY CHRIS MIRANDA ON OCTOBER 31, 2016 AT 2:59 PM
Bitcoin Maintains Strong Rise Amid Differing Theories
JUST when critics thought Bitcoin will not be able to hurdle the obstacles brought about by launch of new digital currencies and hacking here and there not to mention issues about its transaction capabilities, it proved it can weather the storm.
From October 1 to October 29, Bitcoin has had a very impressive run, rising from $600 to $720, representing a 19 pct increase in such short span.
Year to date, Bitcoin has surged from the $350 mark starting February this year, making a quick rise to the $800 last May, then settling an average $600 to $700 from July to September.
As with the usual trend in price shifts, nobody knows exactly why Bitcoin is rising the way it is as of presstime. As for this latest price rally, analysts bring to the table two of several underlying possibilities making the rounds in the finance market.
Hedge vs Chinese currency
China’s currency, the yuan, has dropped 5 percent versus the US greenback during the past months, hitting 6-year lows. A good number of traders in China use bitcoin, as a hedge against looming yuan weakness, based on a report by Bloomberg. Currency hedging in the Chinese market is very complex in terms of its capital controls, making freely traded bitcoin very appealing.
Another reason is that more and more Chinese are turning to bitcoin as the government becomes very stringent in its wealth management policy.
Liquidity
According to Needham and Co, it lifted its price target for Bitcoin, from $650 to $845, citing improved stability and liquidity. The cryptocurreny’s well-noted volatilty is currently about the same as that of oil, while its liquidity can be compared to that of mid-cap stock in the United States.
In the midst of different opinions surrounding Bitcoin’s mystery, as with other markets, perception is as crucial as reality. Right now, virtual currency players are happy about what they are seeing for Bitcoin.
About Chris Miranda
Chris writes mostly about the latest in the stock market, finance, tech and business. View all posts by Chris Miranda →
Top Forex Brokers
Top Binary Brokers
1
Trade 24 Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
2
Trading Banks Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
3
NSFX Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
Follow Us
Newsletter Signup
Popular Posts
Zcash, the New Cryptocurrency, Makes “Deafening” Entry, Threatens Bitcoin, Ethereum
Company Earnings Report, as of Nov. 4, 2016
Metatrader Brokers
Spot Trade
Source of Wealthy Information
Advertisement
ABOUT US CONTACT US PRIVACY POLICY ADVERTISE SITEMAP PARTNERS
© 2016 FxPips.com. All rights reserved.
Risk Disclaimer: Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk, and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading, and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.
READ PREVIOUS POST: