https://www.crowdfundinsider.com/2016/10/90761-bank-england-document-central-bank-issuing-digital-currency/
Here is the Bank of England Document on the Central Bank Issuing Digital Currency - Crowdfund Insider
Home
Featured
Portal News
Politics
Offerings
Strategy
Fintech
More
Search
Here is the Bank of England Document on the Central Bank Issuing Digital Currency
in
Share
19
October 1, 2016 @ 2:48 pm By JD Alois
The advent of digital currencies and blockchain technology has engendered great consternation and interest from policy makers around the world. The concept of bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies may be the next step in fiat currency. Having made the leap from barter to coins and then to paper notes is not the end of it all. Removing the physical quality of money may be just around the corner – and the Bank of England is one institution that is willing to contemplate this profound possibility.
In case you missed it, the Bank of England published a working paper on the “Macroeconomics of Central Bank Issued Digital Currencies”. Effectively the researchers John Barrdear and Michael Kumhof asked “what if” the Bank of England created its own Bitcoin? What, on earth, would that mean for the economy and the rest of the world?
Creating a “central bank digital currency” (CBDC) or a “universally accessible and interest-bearing  central bank liability, implemented via distributed ledgers that competes with bank deposits as medium of exchange” is not that far-fetched.  The technology already exists but this has never been done.  It should be more surprising that more central banks are not considering the same. The rise of private digital currencies has already pulled a certain amount of transactions outside the purview of state banks. The BoE document reviews both the pros and the cons of a CBDC reviewing structural issues, price, output stability and financial stability. Of course one of the biggest benefits for consumers is the potential to reduce the cost of transactions and perhaps cut traditional banks entirely out of the equation.
The BoE white paper is based on the theoretical as not much empirical data exists quite yet. The authors close with more questions than answers. But just posing the question “what if” is enough to get the conversation started.
The Bank of England White Paper on Digital Currencies is embedded below.
View this document on Scribd
You may also like...
Deloitte Report: “There is a race to regulate Bitcoin. Is it too soon?”
Quadriga: CEO Gerald Cotton Leads Canada’s First R&D Lab for Blockchain Technology
Brief: Filippino Fintech Satoshi Citadel Industries Introduces Digital Currency Startup Boom Cash
Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance Announces Research on Blockchain
Digital Currencies and Crowdfunding: The Next Big Thing?
Innovate Finance, Hartree Centre, Announce FinTech Blockchain Lab
Unocoin Finds Pre Series-A Pot of Gold, Raises Record Amount for Indian Currency Venture
Plutus Raises $1 Million in Crowdsale of Plutons
Busting 7 Blockchain & Bitcoin Myths
UBS Launches Future of Finance Challenge, Engages Fintech Entrepreneurs and Bitcoin Startups
Game on Bitcoin! Safe Cash Blockchain Handling Up to 25,000 Transactions Per Second
Overstock Gets SEC Approval to Issue Shares Using Blockchain
Saving Time and Money through Blockchain Tech: Chain Secures $30M Series B from Industry Behemoths Visa, Nasdaq, Citi Ventures
Brief: Reportlinker Conducts Research on Bitcoin
Brave New Coin & Smartbit Partner to Create BNC Bitcoin Liquid Index
in
Share
19
This entry was posted in Global, Politics and tagged bank of england, bitcoin, blockchain, crypto-currency, digital currency, research. Bookmark the permalink.
Sign up for a weekly emailed update
Subscribe
.
.
.
.
Research: European Alternative Finance Jumps to €5.4 billion in 2015
PatentAngels Wants to Crowdfund Companies with Patent Rights
Finally. Australian Parliament Re-Introduces Crowdfunding Legislation
Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond's Autumn Statement: Further Support for Business Including Fintech
China: WeiyangX Fintech Review
Mark Elenowitz of TriPoint Global: Reg A+ is the Future of IPOs
German Finance Ministry Publishes Report on Fintech: Very High Growth in Recent Years
Neuroprofiler: Risk Profiling & Suitability Testing Based on Behavioral Finance
Embed This
UPCOMING EVENTS
Crowdsourcing Week Europe 2016 – Brussels
November 21 - November 25
Go F**tech Yourself — An Official Slush Pre-Event – Helsinki
November 29 @ 4:00 am - 10:00 pm
Startup Canada Grand Finale Awards 2016 – Toronto
November 29 @ 5:30 pm - 9:00 pm
Slush – Helsinki
November 30 - December 1
Small Business Forum – Washington, DC
November 30 @ 2:30 pm - 5:00 pm
View All Events
Contact Us

Crowdfund Insider
Fintech Insider
PO Box 221196
Beachwood OH 44122

Info: info@crowdfundinsider.com
Support: support@crowdfundinsider.com

CI on Twitter
CI on Facebook
CI on LinkedIn
CI on Google+
Categories
Featured Headlines
General News
Crowdfunding Portals
Politics
Strategy
Offerings
Global
Services
Submit a Tip
Advertise on Crowdfund Insider
About Us
Crowdfunding Guide
FAQ
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Admin
asia australia california canada charity china crowdcube equity europe event fca film fintech france games gaming germany gofundme hardware health indiegogo jobs act kickstarter lending club london marketplace medical music new zealand p2p peer to peer perspective real estate regulation a regulations research sec seedrs singapore tactics technology title III uk united kingdom video games
© 2016 Crowded Media Group. All Rights Reserved.