https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/japanese-man-arrested-purchasing-bitcoin-stolen-credit-card/
Japanese Man Arrested for Purchasing Bitcoin with a Stolen Credit Card - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin CrimeNews
Japanese Man Arrested for Purchasing Bitcoin with a Stolen Credit Card
Samburaj Das on 04/11/2016

Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
R
yota Fujii was arrested in Tokyo after using the credit card of a local woman to purchase ¥600,000 yen in bitcoins (approx. $5800 USD in current rates) in January 2016. Fujii also set up a bitcoin wallet with the woman’s identity, by using a photograph of the victim’s driver’s license, according to local publication Tokyo Reporter.
Fujii reportedly purported to be a money lender, successfully obtaining information and documentation from the woman. Once he set up a sham account, he transferred the bitcoins to a private account before converting it back to cash.
Ryota Fujii, under arrest. Image credit: NHK News.
Another regional news outlet revealed that this case of money laundering, with bitcoin, is the first of its kind to occur in the country, according to the Tokyo Metropolitan Police. Fundamentally, Fujii used yen to purchase bitcoins before converting it back to yen in the hopes that the money trail would vanish.
Fujii has admitted to the charge of computer fraud, confirming the allegations against him.
  When the police queried Fujii for the reason behind using a stolen credit card to buy bitcoin, he is quoted as saying:
I had debts to pay back.
  One news outlet also revealed that Fujii was involved in using accounts with an American bitcoin exchange to facilitate the crime. U.S.-based exchanges are gaining a presence in Japan, with Coinbase making a notable recent effort. So too, has Kraken, a digital currency exchange with a foothold in Japan since 2014.
Image from Shutterstock.
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Bitcoin Crime, News

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextBank of Canada to Reveal Results of its Digital Currency Experiment While Bitcoin Stands Dismissed03/11/2016
PreviousReceive Bitcoin Directly with Blockonomics.co and Avoid Places Where Your Funds Can Be Frozen or Blocked04/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.