http://mg.co.za/article/2016-10-06-00-what-to-do-if-your-data-is-held-hostage
What to do if your data is held hostage | Business | M&G
NEWS
(CURRENT)
OPINION
ARTS
BUSINESS
EDUCATION
HEALTH
SPECIAL REPORTS
MORE
PARTNERS
BUSINESS
What to do if your data is held hostage
Lisa Steyn 06 Oct 2016 00:00
Obtaining bitcoins isn't always easy. (Reuters)
When ransomware takes hold of your files, the preferred form of payment is generally bitcoins. But for the average computer user, obtaining these is not easy.
Francois Harris of Bitcoin South Africa said he has heard of cases where people treated the situation as though their hard drive had crashed, and reformatted their computer.
But he also knows of people who have paid to get their files back, which they have done successfully.
“The quickest and easiest way to recover your files if you have been infected by ransomware is to do a bitcoin payment to the baddies,” Bitcoin South Africa states in a blog post on its website.
READ MORE: Datanapping computer files is big business
The fastest way to do this is to use the currency exchange website localbitcoins.com. Bitcoins are a form of digital currency.
“If you use one of the other local exchanges in South Africa, you will most likely need to wait a couple of days for your verification and Fica [Financial Intelligence Centre Act] documents to be processed,” he says.
But on the localbitcoins.com website you can buy bitcoins to pay the same day. Other exchanges do not make it so easy.
Bitcoin South Africa explains that BitX, one of the exchanges in South Africa, states on its terms of usage page that you may not use BitX products or services to “engage in extortion or blackmail”, which is essentially what you will be doing as a victim when you pay the ransom to get your data released.
Frans Lategan, security analyst at Sensepost, said bitcoin is not anonymous but pseudonymous and the traceability of transactions depends on one’s own operational security.
There is a distributive ledger, in which all transactions are public. “So if you have a ransom note to pay into an address you can go to blockchain.info and see how many transactions go there,” said Lategan. “If ransomware authors create a new address for each demand they can keep the money fairly anonymously.”
Hackers can also “wash” coins through coin mixing services, or launder them through online bitcoin casinos.
“Because authorities don’t recognise bitcoin as legal tender, they often can’t use money-laundering tools against those sites,” Lategan said.
“But if at some stage [people] want to spend that money and they want to convert it to dollars, they might deposit it at an exchange.”
In this case the authorities can subpoena the exchange to get details on where the money was deposited.
  Lisa Steyn
Lisa Steyn is a business reporter at the Mail & Guardian. She holds a master's degree in journalism and media studies from Wits University. Her areas of interest range from energy and mining to financial services and telecommunication. When she is not poring over annual reports, Lisa can usually be found pottering about the kitchen. Read more from Lisa Steyn
@mg_biz
ransomwaremalwaredatanappingdata
88.8K
SHARES
LinkedIn
Twitter
Google+
Facebook
More
READ MORE
Datanapping computer files is big business
Bitcoin entrepreneur faces money laundering charges
Bitcoin: Is virtual currency here to stay?
We recommend
Why Ipid is charging acting police commissioner Phahlane
(News)
Pravin for president?
(News)
Zuma will trigger a 'bloodbath' if the ANC loses in 2019 – Zakes Mda
(News)
Why we should resist an amnesty deal for Zuma
(News)
From around the Web
You will not want to switch off your computer. Build your city!
(Elvenar)
The 50 Most Expensive Movies Ever Made--How Many Can You Name?
(PrettyFamous)
25 Names Nobody Wants to Name Their Child Anymore
(MooseRoots | By Graphiq)
Houston Teacher Impregnated By 13-Year-Old Student Pleads GUILTY
(Radar Online)
Recommended by
COMMENTS
Madiba will be our Trump card when the Donald's orange flood reaches our shores
WORLD | 2016-11-11 00:00:00
Noah’s arc: Intimate and humane
BOOKS | 2016-11-11 00:00:00
Let's restore M&G's start-up vigour
ANALYSIS | 2016-11-04 00:00:00
Chronology of a president's long walk to self-implosion
POLITICS | 2016-11-04 00:00:00
Writing’s on the wall for Jo’burg’s graffiti artists
NATIONAL | 2016-10-27 00:00:00
MOST READ
SA backs Africa Group’s view that LGBTI rights have no place in international law
AG's report exposes billions of irregular expenditure by government, SOEs
Breakdown: Courts emerge as main theatre for SA’s political wars
South Africa faces uneasy questions about the power of President Zuma
Scandal dogs Koko, the Eskom man rumoured to step into Molefe's shoes
CLIENT MEDIA RELEASES
Press Offices
AfroCentric Health
Barloworld Logistics
Boston City Campus
CIO Council of South Africa
ContinuitySA
Corporate Traveller
Defenceweb
Faculty Training Institute
FCm Travel Solutions
FedGroup Financial Services
FutureSense
GIBS
Hollard
Imperial Logistics
Internet Solutions
Ipsos
iStore
ITWeb
Lime Capital
Lottery Results
Khulumani Support Group
Mail and Guardian
Mandela Bay Development
MiWay
MiX Telematics
MessageLOUD
Mitel
MTN
Nihilent Technologies
North West University
Oxbridge Academy
Pragma
Rosebank College
SANRAL
SAS Institute
SAP Africa
Sentech
Soarsoft International
Teraco Data Environments
The Innovation Hub
Tiger Brands
Vaal University of Technology
Veeam Software
THE INNOVATION HUB
The Innovation Hub announces winners
MTN
MTN offers jackpot on Black Friday
OXBRIDGE ACADEMY
Staying cyber security savvy
MTN
MTN's response on 112 emergency service
VEEAM SOFTWARE
Veeam presents Availability Suite 9.5
WANT TO PUBLISH YOUR MEDIA RELEASES HERE?
CONTACT US
STORY TIP-OFFS
LEGAL
COMMENTS GUIDELINES
RATE CARD
ABOUT US
CORRECTIONS AND CLARIFICATIONS
ETHICS & SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY
ADVERTISING
SUBSCRIPTIONS
All material © Mail & Guardian Online. Material may not be published or reproduced in any form without prior written permission.