http://dcebrief.com/bonding-over-bitcoin-india-and-singapore-join-hands-regarding-blockchain-and-fintech-will-the-world-follow-their-lead/
Bonding over Bitcoin: India and Singapore Join Hands Regarding Blockchain and Fintech; Will the World Follow Their Lead?
Home
Bitcoin
Business
DNotes
Featured
Finance
FinTech
Recaps
Regulation
Technology
Bonding over Bitcoin: India and Singapore Join Hands Regarding Blockchain and Fintech; Will the World Follow Their Lead?
Home
»
Featured
»
Bonding over Bitcoin: India and Singapore Join Hands Regarding Blockchain and Fintech; Will the World Follow Their Lead?
Posted on Oct 25, 2016
Executive Brief
The central bank of Singapore and Andhra Pradesh (a South Indian province) announced their intention to join together and promote financial technology innovation on Saturday. To cement the deal, an agreement called the “Fintech Cooperation Agreement” was signed binding the two states.
Read the full story below. 
In another global move to embrace Bitcoin, India and Singapore are the next big players entering the field. On Saturday, the central bank of Singapore (Monetary Authority of Singapore) and Andhra Pradesh (a South Indian province) announced their intention to join together and promote financial technology innovation, focusing specifically on blockchain and digital transactions. To cement the deal, an agreement called the “Fintech Cooperation Agreement” was signed binding the two states.
Andhra Pradesh is well-renowned in India, and across the rest of the world, as one of the leading tech industries. Singapore also harbors a welcoming environment for new technology and development. Singapore released a statement, clarifying their role in further research and innovation in blockchain (the Bitcoin database). This has techies and finance-wizards very excited, if blockchain gains international and government funded status it will truly explode as the next big thing.
The benefits to both countries are immense. Andhra Pradesh will see new curriculum development in the education of financial technologies in their state, as per the agreement. Singapore gains a lot of ground here, with this partnership, and the creation of an entirely new market in India will open up doors for Fintech startups in Singapore than need venture capital to gain ground. Perhaps the biggest concern on the Indian financial sector is security; 3.2 million debit cards were recently compromised due to gaps in the system. With India’s mammoth market, this is a huge opportunity to offer complete security.
With Singapore’s success and India’s need, the world may possibly see one of the greatest partnerships in the financial and technology markets. Corporations and countries in the West, constantly facing security breaches with no solution in sight might finally turn their heads towards Singapore, adopting its Bitcoin and blockchain friendly approach.
6
1
You may also like:
Connecting Public and Private Blockchains May Be Possible
Top 8 Bitcoin Apps for iPhone
Digital Currencies and Fiat Currency Turmoil
Tunisia Becomes First Nation To Put Nation’s Currency on a Blockchain
.
The views expressed by the authors on this site do not necessarily represent the views of DCEBrief or the management team.
Author: Nick Marinoff
Nick Marinoff is a freelance author, writer and journalist. His first book, "Take a 'Loan' Off Your Shoulders: 14 Simple Tricks for Graduating Debt Free" is now available on Amazon.com amazon.com/author/nickmarinoff. He is currently a lead content writer and news editor for Money & Tech, and is a regular contributor to both NewsBTC and Bitcoinist.net. Other publications include Black Impact Magazine, Benzinga.com and The Loan Gurus, to name a few. He is a proud graduate of FHSU in Hays, KS.
Share This Post On
Google
Facebook
Twitter
Quotes
It’s a store of value, a distributed ledger. It’s a great place to put assets, especially in places like Argentina with 40 percent inflation, where $1 today is worth 60 cents in a year, and a government’s currency does not hold value.
— David Marcus – Former President of PayPal
Sponsor Ads


Search
Search for:
Translate
Seleccionar idioma▼
Hot Topics This Week
Top 8 Bitcoin Apps for iPhone
Connecting Public and Private Blockchains May Be Possible
Tunisia Becomes First Nation To Put Nation’s Currency on a Blockchain
Bank of Japan on Board
Digital Currencies and Fiat Currency Turmoil
Mission Statement
DCEBrief is committed to focus on bringing issues that matter to your attention, utilizing an “Executive Summary” without fluff and filler. When appropriate, we may also include full length articles. Our mission is to keep you informed with timely information. We will need the cooperation of the mainstream media and the full support of our political leaders and regulators to help promote and not stifle innovation for the better good of mankind.
© 2015 DCEBrief. All rights reserved.
About Us Meet The Team Privacy Policy Comments Policy Terms & Conditions Content License Contact us