https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/indian-bitcoin-exchange-unocoin-releases-apis-partners-blockstream-remittance/
Indian Bitcoin Exchange Unocoin Releases APIs, Partners Blockstream for Remittance - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin ExchangeBitcoin TechnologyBlockchain News
Indian Bitcoin Exchange Unocoin Releases APIs, Partners Blockstream for Remittance
Samburaj Das on 07/11/2016

107
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Unocoin, arguably India’s foremost bitcoin exchange and wallet provider has announced the implementation of its APIs, a first for the company. The feature will help enable adopters, be it individuals or companies, to generate bitcoin wallets to transact with and store the cryptocurrency as a payment method.
T
he API also allows for real-time or historical price information, bitcoin payment options for merchants and perhaps uniquely, KYC (know your customer) detailing procedures for offshore merchants to remit bitcoin to India.
The release of its API comes soon after the bitcoin startup raised $1.5 million in a pre Series-A funding round, a record amount for a digital currency venture in the country.
  Unocoin chief executive and co-founder Sathvik Vishwanath stated:
We’ve been excited to develop a robust API for use by companies around the world. Our API is best described as an on-ramp for firms looking for a simpler way to gain entry into one of the world’s fastest growing and largest potential markets.
  Unocoin added that the API has seen “rigorous testing” prior to its release, with its mobile applications built off the API infrastructure.
Partnering Blockstream for Cross-Border Remittance
India is home to an increasing interest in Bitcoin.
The bitcoin exchange also revealed a new partnership with prominent bitcoin blockchain-centric Blockstream, to enable low-cost cross-border remittance. The partnership will see the feature enabled on Paycase, a mobile remittance application that will use Unocoin’s API and Blockstream’s sidechains product, Liquid, to introduce frictionless, near-instant remittance between Canada and India.
As the leading remittance-receiver in the world, India is leading market for blockchain-enabled remittance operators to make their mark.
  Blockstream CEO Adam Back stated:
India represents a massive growth opportunity for Bitcoin.
  “We’re excited to be working with Unocoin on Liquid and believe the company has the potential to bring Bitcoin to millions of new users based on their technology vision and business execution,” Back added, underlining what could potentially prove a significant use-case of its sidechains offering.
Image from Shutterstock.
107
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Bitcoin Exchange, Bitcoin Technology, Blockchain News, News Tagged in: blockstream, india, unocoin

Recent Posts
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
A Blockchain Remittance Pilot Proves Successful for 100 Migrant Workers in Thailand
Advertisement
NextBtcSolar Limited Has Launched a Unique Investment Concept Offering Its Members to Invest in Solar Energy Power Sector Using Bitcoins07/11/2016
PreviousBitcoin Scaling Solution Segwit a “Bait and Switch”, says Roger Ver07/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.