http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/21/ethereum-classic-price-technical-analysis-etc-remains-supported-2/
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC Remains Supported - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:47 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC Remains Supported
Author
Aayush Jindal
Categories
Altcoins, Analysis, Online, Trading
21



Ethereum classic price managed to remain above a key support zone against the Bitcoin, which is a good sign for the ETC buyers.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Key Highlights
Ethereum classic price remained above a crucial support area of 0.00153BTC against the Bitcoin.
Yesterday’s highlighted bullish trend line on the hourly chart of ETC/BTC (data feed via Simplefx) is still in action and providing bids.
The pair is currently moving higher, and may be heading towards the 0.00165BTC level soon.
Ethereum classic price managed to remain above a key support zone against the Bitcoin, which is a good sign for the ETC buyers.
Ethereum Classic Price Support
Ethereum Classic price after a major decline found support just above 0.00150BTC. There is a crucial bullish trend line on the hourly chart of ETC/BTC (data feed via Simplefx), as highlighted yesterday that prevented a downside move. It acted as a support area recently as well, and currently helping the price to move back higher.
However, there is a concern for the ETC buyers. Yesterday, the price was above the 100 hourly simple moving average. It is now just below the 100 hourly SMA, which is stopping the buyers from taking control. Moreover, the 23.6% Fib retracement level of the drop from the 0.00186BTC high to 0.00153BTC low is also acting as a major hurdle for the buyers. It acted as a resistance on many occasions, and currently preventing an upside move.
I think as long as the price is above the trend line support, it may attempt to break the 0.00162BTC for a ride towards the 0.00165BTC level. The most important resistance on the upside could be around the 50% Fib retracement level of the drop from the 0.00186BTC high to 0.00153BTC low. As I stated yesterday, one may consider buying dips as long as the price is above the trend line.
Hourly MACD – The MACD is still flat, and suggesting no major movement.
Hourly RSI – The RSI is above the 50 level, and suggesting that the price is supported on the downside.
Major Support Level – 0.00158BTC
Major Resistance Level – 0.00165BTC
  Charts courtesy – SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
21
PUBLISHED BY
Aayush Jindal
Aayush has spent over seven years as a financial markets contributor and observer. He specializes in market strategies and technical analysis, comes with an IT background. He possess strong technical analytical skills and is well known for his entertaining and informative analysis of the currency and commodities markets. He is a software engineer by profession, loves blogging and observing financial markets. View all posts by Aayush Jindal
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
This article is Sponsored by
You'll can skip this Ad in 2 seconds...
SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before
130 COUNTRIES | 40000+ TRADERS