http://www.thelocal.ch/20161029/swiss-rail-service-to-sell-bitcoin-at-ticket-machines
Swiss rail service to sell Bitcoin at stations - The Local
The Local uses cookies.More info.Got it!
Switzerland's news in English
Change editions:  Austria · Denmark · France · Germany · Italy · Norway · Spain · Sweden
  Newsletter sign-up


Get the job you've always wanted with The Local Jobs
More English-language jobs in Switzerland than anyone else
News & Features

Jobs
Property
Money
Community
More
        Business & Money
But despite installing the machines, the digital currency won't be accepted as a payment method. Photo: Josep Lago / AFP file picture
Swiss rail service to sell Bitcoin at stations
Published: 29 Oct 2016 11:45 GMT+02:00
Switzerland's national rail service (SBB) said Friday it was set to launch a new service selling the digital currency Bitcoin at all ticket machines across the country.
Zug to let residents pay bills using bitcoin (10 May 16)
The SBB said it had been testing customer demand for Bitcoin across the wealthy Alpine federation and decided to launch a two-year pilot project beginning on November 11.
"Until now, there have only been limited opportunities to purchase Bitcoin in Switzerland," the rail service said in a statement.
It said that it would use its network of 1,000 ticket machines to let customers swap other currencies for Bitcoin, provided they give a mobile phone number for identification.
Swiss financial services company SweePay is providing the electronic conversion services.
Transactions will be capped at 500 Swiss francs ($500, 460 euros) each but SBB stressed customers will not be allowed to buy tickets with the e-money.
Bitcoin "is not accepted as a payment method," the state-owned company said.
More from The Local
Trump and Switzerland: not so far apart?
Swiss people in favour of early nuclear withdrawal
Swiss banks seek heirs for millions in dormant accounts
With the current value of the currency around 689 Swiss francs, customers "will be able to purchase fractions of Bitcoin," a CFF spokesman told AFP.
Bitcoin has stirred interest as a way to move money around the world with no fees or bank involvement, but secrecy surrounding the currency, including its creator, have led to some to questions on its stability and transparency.
For more news from Switzerland, join us on Facebook and Twitter.
AFP (news@thelocal.ch)


  by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
You May Like
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Soldiers: Free Online Game
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
My Snoring Solution
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple Solution
My Snoring Solution
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 million players.
Grepolis - Online Free Game
Trump and Switzerland: not so far apart?
Swiss people in favour of early nuclear withdrawal
Today's headlines
Photo: Caspar Urban Weber/Theater Neumarkt
Swiss theatre docked funds for mocking populist MP
Theater Neumarkt's 2017 grant is slashed after a "voodoo" performance attacking Roger Köppel.
On This Day
Every Milestone in History Selected for You
WikiImages
Photo: Dominique Peter/Redog
Drones to help Swiss rescue dogs find missing people
Switzerland's dog rescue volunteers have teamed up with the Swiss Federation of Civil Drones for the new venture.
WTO chief Roberto Azevedo. Photo: Fabrice Coffrini/AFP
WTO chief: 'I don't know what Trump's trade policies are'
The head of the World Trade Organization said he has received no indication the United States would move to leave the WTO under Donald Trump's administration. 4 comments
File photo: Christof Sonderegger/Swiss Tourism
Saas-Fee green-lights bargain season ski pass
Skiers will get their hands on a season pass for the impressively low price of 222 francs ($218) after 75,000 people signed up for the crowdfunded deal.
File photo: Marcel van Hoorn/AFP
Zurich: Patients should have easier access to cannabis
Authorities in Zurich want to issue a special ID card to help people who need cannabis for medical reasons.
File photo: Valentin Jacquemin
Cyclist must pay $400,000 in damages after fatal accident
Court finds cyclist guilty of causing the death of a fellow competitor in a 2014 cycle race. 2 comments
Photo: Fabrice Coffrini/AFP
Swiss charity tackles toy company with Barbie stunt
Solidar Switzerland invited passers by to pose for photographs next to a flesh-and-blood figure of Barbie's beau Ken to highlight dire working conditions in Chinese toy factories.
Winterthur in eastern Switzerland. File photo: Simon Aughton
Posters appeal to save controversial Swiss mosque
Should a mosque whose imam is charged with inciting violence be saved?
Calmy-Rey and Clinton were involved in diplomacy at the time of the donation. Photo: Maria Belen Perez Gabilondo/AFP
‘No conflict of interests' over Clinton donation: Bern
No action will be taken over the Swiss government's half-a-million-franc donation to the Clinton Foundation. 5 comments
Montreux Christmas market beefs up security plan
Montreux Noël has introduced extra security measures this year in light of recent terror attacks in Europe.
Most read Most comments
Posters appeal to save controversial Swiss mosque
Saas-Fee green-lights bargain season ski pass
Zurich: Patients should have easier access to cannabis
Montreux Christmas market beefs up security plan
Cyclist must pay $400,000 in damages after fatal accident
Culture
Zurich named one of world's ‘most inspiring' cities
Sponsored Links 
You May Like
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Soldiers: Free Online Game
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
My Snoring Solution
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 million players.
Grepolis - Online Free Game
  by Taboola 
Business & Money
Swiss banks seek heirs for millions in dormant accounts
Politics
Trump and Switzerland: not so far apart?
Society
Mysterious Roman remains uncovered in Swiss town
Lifestyle
Zermatt named ‘Best Ski Resort' in Alps – again
International
'It's like a collective suicidal leap into the unknown'
Technology
New Swiss device could help paralyzed people to walk
Lifestyle
UK Toblerone fans outraged over Swiss choc's new shape
Society
Study: country-city divide replaces Swiss ‘Röstigraben'
Health
Survey: nearly half of Swiss are overweight
National
Swiss wins bravery prize for helping refugees in Greece
Features
Six brilliant ways to survive November in Switzerland
National
Imam faces prosecution after police raid Winterthur mosque
International
World's shortest international flight of 8 minutes takes off
Business & Money
Swiss rail service to sell Bitcoin at stations
National
Crucial or ‘chaotic'? Swiss debate nuclear withdrawal
National
Herd of cows killed in fire on Swiss farm
Society
Report: Swiss progress slows on gender equality
National
VIDEO: driver chases runaway car on Swiss motorway
Travel
SBB pilots new annual pass – costing 12,200 francs
National
Swiss government rejects call for second immigration vote
Society
Brothers go to court to stop suicide of sibling
National
Muslim woman wins headscarf court battle
4,580
jobs available
Offers from <a href="https://www.comparis.ch/preisvergleich/tl.html">Comparis.ch</a>
Noticeboard
22/11
ELC Wooden Blue Kitchen
08/11
BMW X1 sDrive 18d (SUV) CHF 17'250.
20/10
Zurich photographer Steven Anggrek in NYC Art Exhibition!
13/09
Painting and Decorating
12/09
THE VAGINA MONOLOGUES - ACTORS & VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
12/09
FC Basel vs Ludogorets
SHOW ALL NOTICES »
Discuss
06:30
The 11 best school systems in the world
06:11
UBs or Credit Suisse? Which one?
02:16
Waste Disposal and Recycling in Zurich 2014:&hellip;
02:09
Has the &quot;alert level&quot; raised?
01:40
Swisscom stops DSL Standard
01:29
Will Hillary Clinton run for president again?
01:23
Why so very late? [Women&#039;s right to vote in&hellip;
01:12
Nasty little habits for Friday
23:19
EU national moving to Switzerland to be self-employed
22:43
3 Free days for photographing landscapes -&hellip;
FULL INDEX »
JUST THE NEWS »
LATEST TOPICS »
About Advertise Editorial Editions
Contact us
About The Local
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Audience data
Contact our sales team
Post a job ad
  Send us a story
Our journalists
RSS newsfeed
Austria's news in English
Denmark's news in English
France's news in English
Germany's news in English
Italy's news in English
Norway's news in English
Spain's news in English
Sweden's news in English
The Local Europe AB
Östgötagatan 12
116 25 Stockholm
Sweden
       