http://www.coindesk.com/study-finds-bitcoin-has-a-new-top-dark-market/
Bitcoin Has a New Top Dark Market - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$728
$733
$739
USD -0.02%
$738.10
CNY 0.2%
¥5,195.18
EUR €696.69
GBP £591.32
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
NEWS
Bitcoin Has a New Top Dark Market
Michael del Castillo (@DelRayMan) | Published on October 12, 2016 at 14:02 GMT
NEWS
338
60
11
Dream Market is now the most popular bitcoin-enabled dark market.
The finding is the result of a new collaboration between blockchain analytics startup Skry and information security firm Terbium Labs, one that analyzed millions of URLs to identify the most popular sites for illicit bitcoin commerce.
The case study, released today, is being positioned by the companies as a countermeasure against the rise of new proposals from the bitcoin community, including those such as CoinJoin and MimbleWimble, both of which seek to increase user privacy on the public blockchain.
Specifically, Palo Alto, California-based Skry used Terbium's Matchlight system to identify the top three most popular dark web markets in the dataset: Dream Market, AlphaBay Market and The Majestic Garden.
The partnership is designed to provide similar kinds of insight to bitcoin companies, financial institutions and law enforcement looking to track fraud and other criminal activities conducted using products built on blockchains and other distributed ledgers.
Previously known as Coinalytics, Skry used Matchlight to index 3.7 million public keys that appear on Tor hidden services, password-protected forums, dark web markets, i2p, popular paste sites and many other places.
From 11,000 dark web URLs, the partnership identified 22,000 public keys, of which there were 798 unique bitcoin public keys.
The feed of URLs was then incorporated into Skry's analytics platform, where it underwent further data aggregation and processing to provide "critical associative information," according to the statement.
In spite of the increased efficiency of efforts that track bitcoin usage on dark markets, however, bitcoin remains the most popular digital currency on the dark web, according to a recent report by two professors at the Department of War Studies at King's College London.
The case study released today, however, noted that other cryptocurrencies are increasingly being used in dark markets, including those with strong privacy features like Monero.
However, it noted that here, too, bitcoin plays a role, finding:
"This allows criminals to quickly exchange into another, or even multiple other currencies, and back to bitcoin to cash out."
Spider web image via Shutterstock
Dark MarketsSkryTerbium
338
60
11
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Wells Fargo Develops Blockchain Banking Prototype
NEXT ARTICLE
Double Standards: The Coming Push for Blockchain...
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
NEWS
Jul 11, 2016 at 22:09 | Pete Rizzo
'Sin' Activities No Longer Drive Bitcoin Economy, Researchers Find
A soon-to-be-released study has found evidence that bitcoin’s market is now a venue for "legitimate" commerce.
NEWS
Apr 12, 2016 at 13:42 | Michael del Castillo
Coinalytics Rebrands As Skry, Hires IBM Vet to Go ‘Blockchain’
Coinalytics announced it has rebranded as Skry, unveiled a new logo and hired a former architect at IBM Watson and AI expert.
NEWS
Feb 3, 2015 at 14:50 | Grace Caffyn
Meet Darkleaks, a Bitcoin-Powered Black Market for Secrets
Darkleaks will let users sell leaked data in an anonymous, trustless environment powered by bitcoin's blockchain.
Dec 8, 2014 at 22:35 | Joon Ian Wong
Bitmarkets Launches Decentralised Bitcoin Marketplace With Tor Support
A new decentralised marketplace called Bitmarkets has introduced privacy enhancing features and a novel escrow system.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.