http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-fed-brainard-idUSKCN1272BG
Fed's Brainard sees blockchain as revolutionary, but still to prove itself | Reuters
EDITION:
UNITED STATES
Business
Markets
World
Politics
Tech
Commentary
Breakingviews
Money
Life
BUSINESS NEWS | Fri Oct 7, 2016 | 6:54pm EDT
Fed's Brainard sees blockchain as revolutionary, but still to prove itself
FILE PHOTO -- Federal Reserve Governor Lael Brainard delivers remarks on ''Coming of Age in the Great Recession'' at the Federal Reserve's ninth biennial Community Development Research Conference focusing on economic mobility in Washington, DC, U.S. on April 2, 2015. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas/File Photo
The technology behind the controversial bitcoin electronic currency could lead to sweeping improvements in how financial transactions are carried out worldwide, Federal Reserve Governor Lael Brainard said on Friday.
But only if it can be safeguarded from hackers and terrorists, and not grind to a halt in a crisis.
Those assurances may still be years away, Brainard said, though the Fed is closely tracking the evolution of so-called blockchain systems, and sees it as "the most significant development in many years" in how financial assets trade hands.
PUBLICIDAD
inRead invented by Teads
"We recognize the potential of distributed ledger technology, or blockchain, to transform the way financial market participants transfer, store, and maintain ownership," Brainard said at the Institute of International Finance annual meeting. At the same time, "we want to maintain public confidence."
The Fed along with major central and commercial banks around the world are grappling with how blockchain may reshape the financial system. The technology in theory could lower the cost, improve the security and speed the completion of transactions by eliminating intermediaries. It would instead rely on cryptography and computer algorithms to transfer electronic records across a shared ledger.
Brainard said common ledgers could simplify the complicated cross-border record keeping involved in trade finance, lower counterparty risk in securities transactions, or even automatically enforce bond payment or other contracts.
The downside: it would need to prove itself immune to hacking or other security breaches, use by criminal organizations, and show that it could improve - or at least not damage - financial stability.
"Potential applications are in their infancy, and the industry may still be several years away from an application that is ready to be fully implemented," said Brainard.
The Fed expects to release a research paper on the technology later this year.
ALSO IN BUSINESS NEWS
U.S. crowds pick up slightly on Black Friday, online sales jump
Johnson & Johnson approaches Actelion about takeover deal
"Initial relatively simple proofs of concept must be followed by much more complex demonstrations in real-world situations before these technologies can be safely deployed in today’s highly interconnected, synchronized, and far-reaching financial markets."
(Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
NEXT IN BUSINESS NEWS
Saudi wants OPEC to solve own problems before meeting non-OPEC
DUBAI/LONDON Top OPEC oil exporter Saudi Arabia has told the producer group it will not attend talks on Monday with non-OPEC producers to discuss limiting supply, OPEC sources said, as it wants to focus on having consensus within the organization first.
Wall Street ends at record highs; dollar loses steam
NEW YORK Key stock indexes on Wall Street swept to record intraday and closing highs on Black Friday thanks to gains in consumer staple and technology shares, while European stocks climbed and a stabilization in U.S. Treasury yields promoted investors to sell the dollar.
MORE FROM REUTERS
Trump will get wake-up call when he takes office, Obama says
Ghost airplane attends banquet for new Airbus jet
Willing to oppose Trump, some Senate Republicans gain leverage
China goes global as Trump puts America first
Emirates Airline says some technical issues with Rolls-Royce A380 engines
SPONSORED CONTENT
FROM AROUND THE WEB
Promoted by Taboola
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Soldiers: Free Online Game
Watch: An Amazing 360 Experience Of Abu Dhabi's Sights And Sounds
CNN for Abu Dhabi Tourism
L'Oreal-Proactive On Income Protection For Their Employees
Financial Times
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
My Snoring Solution
Las tres anécdotas de lotería más increíbles de todos los tiempos
theLotter.com
This game will keep you up all night!
Pirates: Free Online Game
TRENDING STORIES
1
U.S. opens door to oil exports after year of pressure
2
Blue-collar Democrats to party: It's still the economy, stupid
3
Russian ruble resumes recovery as exporters seen selling dollars
4
Shares slip in low-volume trading; safe-havens rise
5
U.S. consumer confidence rises in December
FOCUS 360
Video: Heading to space
SPONSORED TOPICS
Follow Reuters:
Follow Us On Twitter
Follow Us On Facebook
Follow Us On RSS
Follow Us On Instagram
Follow Us On YouTube
Follow Us On LinkedIn
Subscribe: Feeds | Newsletters | Podcasts | Apps
Reuters News Agency | Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters is the news and media division of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
EIKON
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface
ELEKTRON
Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management
WORLD-CHECK
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks
WESTLAW
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology
ONESOURCE
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
CHECKPOINT
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2016 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
Site Feedback Corrections Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines AdChoices Terms of Use Privacy Policy