http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/exchange/coinsecure-launches-instant-trading-to-attract-international-investors/
Coinsecure Launches Instant Trading to Attract International Investors | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
×
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyExchangesCoinsecure Launches Instant Trading to Attract International Investors
Coinsecure Launches Instant Trading to Attract International Investors
By skipping the verification process Coinsecure hopes to capture new Bitcoin clients.
Avi Mizrahi | Exchanges (CryptoCurrency) | Friday, 18/11/2016|12:38 GMT
0
0
Photo: Finance Magnates
Coinsecure, the Indian Bitcoin exchange, merchant services and blockchain developer, announced today the launch of entry level trading for international users as well as for the Indian market.
Last week the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced without prior warning that high-denomination rupee notes are to be taken out of circulation. After the shocking demonetization announcement, there have been reports of people turning to Bitcoin.
Exchanges across the giant Asian country have reported a jump in their volumes and user base. Liquidity has been a challenge within the Indian market, causing prices of Bitcoin to soar up in India compared to the international markets.
This move from Coinsecure is meant to allow traders to leverage arbitrage across borders and provide an easy entry point for individuals wanting to explore this space within the Indian market as well.
Coinsecure, CEO, Mohit Kalra
”This move will definitely increase liquidity in India and will also give international users an opportunity to arbitrage from the Indian market. This is a trend we’ve seen over other global exchanges as well” said Mohit Kalra, CEO and founder of Coinsecure.
New users will now be able to simply sign up, deposit BTC and start trading, without having to complete the verification process unless they need to withdraw or deposit fiat (INR).
Coinsecure, CTO, Benson Samuel
CTO and co-founder Benson Samuel said: “This change will be crucial in driving Bitcoin further. Coinsecure has always been committed to providing excellent service and getting more people on board with Bitcoin. This is a decision made to keep moving in that direction.”
Coinsecure also added a new a provision to increase the network fee based on the priority of transactions. Customers will now be able to manually change the default network fee of 0.0001 BTC to anything up to 0.001 BTC.
Last month Coinsecure launched its mobile app for real-time Bitcoin trading on the Android operating system. It aims to target India’s huge and ever growing smartphone user base.
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: bitcoin-exchange / india / Indian Rupee
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 10 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 12 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 13 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 13 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
You Can Now Exchange Bitcoin to USD on Amazon with Just One Click at iPayYou
Lykke Exchange Granted Financial Brokerage License in Vanuatu
GAME Token Now Lists on Chinese Cryptocurrency Exchange Yuanbao
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions