http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/07/bitcoin-price-watch-us-election-traders-hold/
Bitcoin Price Watch; US Election Puts Traders on Hold
25-11-2016
06:35 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Price Watch; US Election Puts Traders on Hold
Author
Gola Yashu
Categories
Analysis, Bitcoin



Not saying that the US election results could impact an independent market like Bitcoin, one can still see digital currency traders mirroring stock market traders’ cautious take.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Traders might want to take a break as the race for next presidential election gets tighter with each passing day. The world’s leading markets, namely S&P 500 (-2%), Dow Jones (-1.5%), Nasdaq Composite (-2.8%), have encountered a short burst of volatility, illustrating how speculators are giving too much weightage to pre-poll readings. These are, however, just cautious parameters amid uncertain prognostications.
Not saying that the US election results could impact an independent market like Bitcoin, one can still see digital currency traders mirroring stock market traders’ cautious take. Especially after the recent rally, which saw Bitcoin price logging <$100 gains in just two weeks, traders are now preferring to keep their heads low. As a result, what we have today is a less volatile and sensitive price action.
Moving away from the fundamental factors, and bringing our focus on intraday trading strategy, here is what we are looking as we head into the US session.
The chart above is a fifteen-minute chart illustrating today’s price action, and it has got our range overlaid. Take a look at that before we kick things off so as you know what we’re going for before things get moving.
As the chart shows, the range for today is defined by 709 fiat as our interim resistance and 695 fiat as interim support. In between, we also have 700 acting as the psychological support. Considering the wide-enough range, we will be using our usual intraday strategy at place for now. That means, entering a long position towards resistance when price floats near support, or vice versa.
From a breakout perspective, here is our strategy:
If price breaks below 700, followed by 695, it will have us watch for a close below that level to validate an immediate downside entry towards 675. Conversely, if price breaks above resistance, we will look for a close to give us an excuse to get in long towards 718 fiat, a pretty aggressive target.
Charts courtesy – SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
PUBLISHED BY
Gola Yashu
India-based IT professional Yashu Gola found Bitcoin in 2012, when he was trying to send money to one of his friends in the US. As he quotes, it was “love-at-first-sight” with the mystical work of digital currencies. He left his online advertising job to work as a full-time Bitcoin writer for forex news website ForexMinute.com. Apart from covering the minute-to-minute Bitcoin events, Yashu is also an active Bitcoin trader and analyst.When not working, he is found reading and writing movie scripts, poems and songs. He is also a passionate movie buff View all posts by Gola Yashu
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.