https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/computing-rental-app-passive-income-earning-launches-full-bitcoin-nodes/
Computing Rental App for Passive Income-Earning Launches Full Bitcoin Nodes - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Altcoin NewsBitcoin TechnologyBlackcoin News
Computing Rental App for Passive Income-Earning Launches Full Bitcoin Nodes
Elliot Maras on 10/11/2016

Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Suchflex, a desktop application that earns users passive income for sharing computational resources, has launched bitcoin full nodes, according to Medium. Users will have a choice of Bitcoin Unlimited, Bitcoin Core, Bitcoin Classic and Bitcoin XT nodes.
A
nyone with around 100 gigabytes of free disk space and an Internet connection will be able to install and run bitcoin full-nodes.
To utilize Suchflex, users only have to download the app. Suchflex members are paid for their contributions with real currency, according to the Suchflex website.
Contribute Power
Members choose whether to share CPU, GPU and hard-drive storage for a weekly incentive.
Members can automatically contribute processing power towards securing the most profitable cryptocurrencies and the blockchain.
The value of earnings is based on the market prices of digital currencies. Users can redeem earnings at any time. They can redeem USD or bitcoin through Coinbase or other payment processors.
Gaming PCs are earning more than $100 per month, according to the website.
Also read: Storj: the next generation cloud storage through the blockchain
Mix And Match Resources
Users can mix and match internal storage, external drives and even spare thumb drives, the website noted. The more space one shares, the more they earn on the Suchflex platform.
The platform has been in public beta since August and has been scaling operations since then, according to Bitcoin.com. The platform has 6,000 active users and more than 600 computers contributing at any one time.
Image from YouTube/LinuxTechTips.
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Altcoin News, Bitcoin Technology, Blackcoin News, News

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextDubai Police Arrest Alleged Bitcoin Scammer Who Siphoned $100,000 off Victims10/11/2016
PreviousR3 Partners Singapore’s Central Bank to Open Blockchain Lab10/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.