http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/16/yuan-reaches-eight-year-low-bitcoin-smashes-us735-wall/
Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low as Bitcoin Smashes US$735 Wall
25-11-2016
06:31 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low as Bitcoin Smashes US$735 Wall
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News
58



Investors flocking to Bitcoin explains the recent price increase of the popular cryptocurrency. In fact, it appears Chinese investors are driving the price up even further.
Things are not looking all that great for the Yuan right now. After reaching an eight-year low overnight, investors are growing concerned about this fiat currency. Chinese banks slashed their forecasts for the exchange rate as well. A looming Federal Reserve interest rate hike is driving the Yuan down, and further lows are on the horizon.
Anyone holding a portfolio containing Yuan will be more than concerned right now. With a plummeting value, things are not looking all that great. Overnight, the Yuan reached its lowest point since December 2008, and further declines are expected. At the same time, the US Dollar continues its bullish run throughout 2016.
Another Bad Day At The Office For The Yuan
These concerns are fueled by the looming Federal Reserve interest rate hike. A stronger US Dollar will automatically lead to a weakening yuan, forcing banks to lower their forecasts. So far, at least five major banks have lowered projections, and more are expected to follow over time.
RBS Group PLC’s Chief Greater China Economist Harrison Hu stated:
“The pressure for the yuan to decline could be stronger next year as Trump’s policies could lead to a dollar rally and amid concerns about China-U.S. trade relations. The People’s Bank of China can curb high volatility with stronger fixings and intervention, but it won’t do so unless outflows surge, as such measures could add great pressures to the foreign reserves.”
This news will only increase capital outflows in China, hurting the economy even further. In September of 2016, US$44.7bn worth of yuan payments exited the Chinese economy. Plugging loopholes to circumvent capital controls have been undertaken, yet provide little relief so far. Interestingly enough, the Chinese government focuses on Bitcoin transactions used to move funds out of China.
Investors flocking to Bitcoin explains the recent price increase of the popular cryptocurrency. In fact, it appears Chinese investors are driving the price up even further. Bitcoin looks very bullish right now, and no one knows what will come next. One thing’s for sure: though: investors will find a way to access alternative financial solutions.
For now, it seems unlikely the PBOC will do something to artificially stabilise the yuan exchange rate. Such a decision would only give Donald Trump further ammunition to label China as a currency manipulator. A very tense situation for residents and investors, that much is certain.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
58
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.