http://www.marketwatch.com/story/sec-kicks-the-bitcoin-etf-approval-decision-down-the-road-2016-10-13
SEC kicks the bitcoin ETF approval decision down the road - MarketWatch
DOW
19,152 +68.96 +0.36%
Home
News Viewer
Markets
Investing
Trading Deck
Personal Finance
Retirement
Economy
Real Estate
Home Investing ETFs Market Extra
GET EMAIL ALERTS
SEC kicks the bitcoin ETF approval decision down the road
By Ryan Vlastelica
Published: Oct 13, 2016 10:06 a.m. ET
4
The SEC is seeking more public feedback on the proposed ETF, which would be the first to track the digital currency
Getty Images
Tyler Winklevoss, left, and Cameron Winklevoss during TechCrunch Disrupt in New York City in May 2015.
The Securities and Exchange Commission late Wednesday declined to make a ruling on a bid to launch what would be the first exchange-traded fund that exclusively tracks the digital currency bitcoin. The regulator said it was instead seeking additional public feedback on the proposal.
The decision is the latest delay for Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, whose proposed ETF is designed to trade baskets of shares tied to the digital commodity. The twin brothers have been among the most public advocates for a bitcoin ETF, having first announced plans for one in 2013. The pair also run both WinkDex, a bitcoin price index, and Gemini, a bitcoin custodian and exchange.
A spokesperson for Winklevoss Capital declined to comment.
–– ADVERTISEMENT ––
Read: Here’s one easy way to get exposure to bitcoin ahead of the Winklevoss ETF
The SEC’s request for additional feedback follows earlier public comments that debated the stability of bitcoin, which has been notoriously volatile in price, as well as any potential conflict of interest between the proposed ETF and Gemini.
“The Commission requests that interested persons provide written submissions of their views, data, and arguments with respect to the issues identified above, as well as any other concerns they may have with the proposal,” the SEC wrote in a filing.
According to SEC rules, those who want to provide feedback have 21 days from the Oct. 12 publication of the document to do so. Responses to the feedback can be filed 35 days after that.
The Bitcoin Investment Trust GBTC, -1.94% was volatile on Thursday, moving between a drop of 1% and a gain of 1%. The trust trades on the over-the-counter market and operates as a private, open-ended trust that invests solely in bitcoin. The value of the trust’s shares are entirely derived from price moves in bitcoin.
More from MarketWatch
Opinion Journal: ‘Fake News’ and Fake Scandals
The Task of Securing President-Elect Donald Trump
Opinion Journal: Obama's Tehran Bribes
Related Topics
U.S. Stocks
Markets
NY Stock Exchange
NASDAQ
MOST POPULAR
10 of the prettiest towns in the U.S. where you can retire reasonably well
Apple nabs obscene share of smartphone profit thanks to Samsung’s Note 7 debacle
As Card Rewards Mount, Visa and Mastercard Win Big
Tesla’s Model X is ‘fast and flawed,’ Consumer Reports says
U.S. stocks hit new records and post third straight week of gains
DATA PROVIDED BY
TODAY'S
INTEREST RATES
Mortgage
Equity
Savings
Auto
Credit Cards
5 yr CD
1.21%
2 yr CD
0.76%
1 yr CD
0.58%
MMA $10K+
0.25%
MMA $50K+
0.38%
MMA Savings
0.29%
MMA Savings Jumbo
0.37%
National averages from Bankrate.com
MARKETWATCH
PARTNER CENTER
SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
RL360°
Top 10 reasons to invest in income
MarketViews
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
MarketViews
Weekly update on the financial markets
MarketViews
4 comments
1 PERSON LISTENING
 + Follow
Share
Post Comment
NEWEST | OLDEST
joshua lenda
Nov 1, 2016
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2016-11-01/five-reasons-the-winklevoss-bitcoin-etf-should-be-approved
FlagShare
LikeReply
ryantology @ryantologyfrom Twitter
14 Oct
@carolrealini TIL; I didn’t know there were currency based ETF. Just seems like a scheme to collect management fees vs participate in BTC?
Reply on TwitterRetweetLikeFlagShare
LikeReply
romp star
Oct 13, 2016
bitcoin bs!  here is my public feedback...
FlagShare
LikeReply
Show More Comments
Powered by Livefyre
LUXURY REAL ESTATE
Billionaire Ron Burkle is buyer behind Bob Hope’s iconic Palm Springs mansion
View More
DONALD TRUMP
Insight and analysis on a Donald Trump presidency
View More
REAL ESTATE NEWS
Melania Trump may be right: Moving in middle of school year could mess up kids
View More
INVESTING
Opinion: A 12-step plan to strengthen your portfolio after Trump's victory
View More
SPONSORED HEADLINES
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
RL360°
Top 10 reasons to invest in income
MarketViews
Weekly update on the financial markets
MarketViews
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
MarketViews
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
RL360°
MARKETWATCH
Site Index
Topics
Help
Feedback
Newsroom Roster
Media Archive
Premium Products
Mobile
COMPANY
Company Info
Code of Conduct
Corrections
Advertising Media Kit
Advertise Locally
Reprints & Licensing
Broker Center
Your Ad Choices
DOW JONES NETWORK
WSJ.com
Barron's Online
BigCharts
Virtual Stock Exchange
Financial News Online
WSJ.com Small Business
realtor.com
Mansion Global
BACK TO TOP
Copyright ©2016 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.
By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.