http://www.investopedia.com/news/bitmain-john-mcafee-open-bitcoin-mining-pool/
Bitmain & John McAfee to Open Bitcoin Mining Pool | Investopedia
Bitmain & John McAfee to Open Bitcoin Mining Pool By Adam Hayes, CFA | November 1, 2016 — 1:45 PM EDT
  Bitcoin mining has become concentrated primarily in China, leading many in the community to believe that the country has too much power in what is supposed to be a global, borderless digital currency. In fact, mining pools located in China account for more than 60% of the total network power. Now, one Chinese mining hardware company and pool operator, Bitmain Tech is teaming up with John McAfee's MGT Capital Investments to launch a new mining pool situated in North America. (For more, see: What is Bitcoin Mining?)
Bitmain + MGT
Bitmain is also a big player in Bitcoin mining, producing the popular and energy efficient Antminer ASIC miners as well as operating the (Chinese) mining pool, Antpool. In addition they operate the cloud mining service Hashnest, where people can rent hardware time without having to actually own and maintain their own equipment. According to news outlet NewsBTC, "MGT Capital Investments, Inc. (OTCMKTS: MGTI) has signed a Letter of Intent with Bitmain Technologies Ltd. As a result of this collaboration, both companies will focus on developing a new state of the art Bitcoin mining pool. John McAfee seems to be big on Bitcoin, and this venture only reaffirms that sentiment." (See Investopedia's interview with McAfee here)
While the exact details of their agreement are not yet known, it seems as if MGT will maintain and operate the mining pool, as well as a cloud mining service, while Bitmain will supply their most energy efficient devises, the Antminer S9. It is also unclear as to what this new pool will be called or what brand it will operate under. Still, it is an interesting development that may be able to bring more geographical symmetry to the mining network and speaks to the growing interest in Bitcoin as a financial and capital investment.
MGT has been operating its own private mining operation and has claimed being particularly successful by utilizing cheap hydroelectric power and proprietary software to increase the efficiency of its machines. (For more, see: MGT: Bitcoin Mining Strategy Paying Off)
The Bottom Line
John McAfee's MGT Capital Investments is teaming up with Bitcoin mining company Bitmain Tech to launch a new, state of the art mining pool situated in North America. Currently, mining is dominated by the Chinese - and although Bitmain is a Chinese company, locating it outside of the country can help add some balance to the overall distribution of the mining network.
RELATED ARTICLES
TRADING
Bitmain's Data Center for Bitcoin Mining Is Nearing Completion
The first-of-its-kind data center is being designed especially for high-performance computing.
INVESTING
MGT: Bitcoin Mining Strategy Paying Of (MGT)
MGT Capital Investments says its bitcoin mining strategy is paying off.
SMALL BUSINESS
Is Bitcoin Mining Still Profitable?
Recent changes in technology and the creation of professional mining centers individual miners are asking themselves, is bitcoin mining still profitable?
INVESTING
MGT Capital Gets SEC Subpoena, Shares Fall 8% (MGT)
MGT Capital disclosed Monday it received a subpoena from the SEC.
INVESTING
Shareholders Approve McAfee Proposals (MGT, INTC)
MGT Capital Investments' shareholders approved all of its proposals, including changing the name to John McAfee Global Technologies.
INVESTING
MGT Sues Intel Over McAfee's Name (MGT, INTC)
MGT Capital Investments is suing Intel over the McAfee name in a nasty spat with the controversial 70-year-old cybersecurity expert
INVESTING
NYSE Delists MGT Capital (MGT)
MGT announced it is being delisted and will start trading on the over the counter exchange as of today.
INVESTING
Key Financial Ratios to Analyze the Mining Industry
Discover some the most important financial ratios used by investors and analysts to evaluate companies in the metals and mining industry.
INVESTING
MGT Cancels Acquisitions; Shares Jump 40% (MGT)
MGT Capital Investment shares closed 40% higher Tuesday after terminating its acquisition of D-Vasive and Demonsaw.
INVESTING
Intel's Deal Complicates McAfee Feud (MGT, INTC)
MGT's lawsuit over the McAfee name got more complicated after Intel and TPG announced a deal to create McAfee, a standalone cybersecurity company.
DICTIONARY: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q
CONTENT LIBRARY
Articles Terms Videos Guides Slideshows FAQs Calculators Chart Advisor Stock Analysis Stock Simulator FXtrader Exam Prep Quizzer Net Worth Calculator
CONNECT WITH INVESTOPEDIA
WORK WITH INVESTOPEDIA
About Us Advertise With Us Write For Us Contact Us Careers
GET FREE NEWSLETTERS
© 2016, Investopedia, LLC. Feedback All Rights Reserved Terms Of Use Privacy Policy