http://www.fxpips.com/the-trump-effect-on-bitcoin-and-chinas-role-in-digital-currency/
The “Trump Effect” on Bitcoin and China’s Role in Digital Currency | FxPips.com
News
Education
Trade Setups
Forex Brokers
Binary Brokers
Bitcoin
Live Charts
Signals
Calendar
/ Bitcoin News / Bitcoin Technical Analysis / CryptoCurrency News / Forex News / Market News / News / World News / The “Trump Effect” on Bitcoin and China’s Role in Digital Currency
The “Trump Effect” on Bitcoin and China’s Role in Digital Currency
POSTED BY CHRISTIAN WANG ON NOVEMBER 11, 2016 AT 12:53 PM
The Trump Effect on Bitcoin and China’s Role in Digital Currency in a Nutshell
FINANCE markets around the globe could not yet seem to fully shake off the dust brought about by the results of the U.S. elections, where real estate tycoon Donald Trump emerged victorious against his rival Hillary Cinton. Trump is the 45th president of the United States.
But global political event has, in some ways, been kind to digital currency, especially bitcoin and some of its closest rivals. As of this writing, bitcoin prices are near the 35-month peak versus the British sterling in the midst of investor worries.
Bitcoin was up 4.7 percent against the US dollar, to hit a peak of $740 yesterday, prior to reaching the $727 mark. This is almost a 4 pct increase from Tuesday’s price of $710.
However, it’s a different scenaro On the other hand, the same cannot be said for all cryptocurrencies. According to Coinmarketcap, Ethereum and Ripple — Bitcoin’s closest rivals — experience drops of two percent and one percent respectively in the wake of the election outcome.
The Trump Effect
Trump’s win coupled with a Republican Congress, is making for quick transformation to the money market. The U.S. dollar has soared and is set to maintain a solid pace with volatility.
The Mexican peso, on the other hand, has already fallen quickly with Trump’s election to power. In the same note, many economies, which includes China, are trying to devalue their currencies in the hopes of making their exports up to par.
Bitcoin’s impressive climb is seen by analysts to continue with many of Trump’s major platforms. He wants tech giants such as Apple Inc (NASDAQ: AAPL) to bring back overseas revenues, which would boost demand for dollars.
Trumps believes the central bank has been too unaggressive. On top of this, moves by foreign federal reserves will also nudge the greenback to rise. A strong US currency is very advantageous for electronic money.
First impressions have it that a robust US greenback is a bane for Bitcoin but truth is, it is not. At least, if we are to base it from recent data that shows bitcoin’s impressive run to the top.
Bitcoin is a currency embraced around the world today, and people are turning to it when their economies devalue their own currencies.
China and Strong USD
The country that has the most impact for Bitcoin is China. If the country’s currency weakens at a faster pace, Chinese investors will hike their use of the cryptocurrency.
Chinea is is already using Bitcoin to bypass government controls and move their assets outside of the country. Events like the recent “Brexit” proves the unpredictable character of fiat currencies.
Bitcoin has surged during the past months – 88 pct against the U.S. dollar, 99.6 pct against CNY, and 127 pct against the British pound.
So while domestic demand for the digital currency may ease a bit, international demand would fill the gap. This year’s increase has been sparked by rising demand from the Chinese market.
To summarize, Trump has a major influence on currencies, including Bitcoin and a strong U.S. dollar is a key stimulus for the most sought-after cryptocurrency.
Photo credits: cointelegraph.com
  About Christian Wang
CHRISTIAN has worked with the New York Stock Exchange and the International Bank of Shanghai as a financial analyst and Certified Public Accountant before he opened up his own money lending firm in the summer last year. A graduate of Computer Engineering at the Arizona State University, Christian is a young and ambitious individual who possesses a keen eye for detail. Before his stint at the NYSE, he sidelined as editor and writer at various online firms. In his spare time, he speaks at seminars and different consultancy firms, sharing his own knowledge on computer engineering and insights on money matters and business management. He is still single and yet very determined to expand his money lending business in China. View all posts by Christian Wang →
Top Forex Brokers
Top Binary Brokers
1
Trade 24 Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
2
Trading Banks Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
3
NSFX Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
Follow Us
Newsletter Signup
Popular Posts
Zcash, the New Cryptocurrency, Makes “Deafening” Entry, Threatens Bitcoin, Ethereum
Company Earnings Report, as of Nov. 4, 2016
Metatrader Brokers
Spot Trade
Source of Wealthy Information
Advertisement
ABOUT US CONTACT US PRIVACY POLICY ADVERTISE SITEMAP PARTNERS
© 2016 FxPips.com. All rights reserved.
Risk Disclaimer: Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk, and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading, and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.