http://lifeboat.com/blog/2016/10/diminishing-bitcoin-mining-rewards
Lifeboat News: The Blog
Switch to White
Sitemap
Home
About
Blog
Programs
Reports
A-PRIZE
Donate
Join Us
Newsletter
Quotes
Store
Press Releases
Blog
Oct 31, 2016
Diminishing Bitcoin Mining Rewards
Posted by Philip Raymond in categories: bitcoin, cryptocurrencies, economics, internet, privacy
By now, most Bitcoin and Blockchain enthusiasts are aware of four looming issues that threaten the conversion of Bitcoin from an instrument of academics, criminal activity, and closed circle communities into a broader instrument that is fungible, private, stable, ubiquitous and recognized as a currency—and not just an investment unit or a transaction instrument.
These are the elephants in the room:
Unleashing high-volume and speedy transactions
Governance and the concentration of mining influence among pools, geography or special interests
Privacy & Anonymity
Dwindling mining incentives (and the eventual end of mining). Bitcoin’s design eventually drops financial incentives for transaction validation. What then?
As an Op-Ed pundit, I value original content. But the article, below, on Bitcoin fungibility, and this one on the post-incentive era, are a well-deserved nod to inspired thinking by other writers on issues that loom over the cryptocurrency community.
This article at Coinidol comes from an unlikely source: Jacob Okonya is a graduate student in Uganda. He is highly articulate, has a keen sense of market economics and the evolution of technology adoption. He is also a quick study and a budding columnist.
What Happens When Bitcoin Mining Rewards Diminish To Zero?
Jacob addresses this last issue with clarity and focus. I urge Wild Ducks to read it. My response, below touches on both issues 3 and 4 in the impromptu list, above.
Sunset mining incentives—and also the absence of supporting fully anonymous transactions—are two serious deficiencies in Bitcoin today.
I am confident that both shortcomings will be successfully addressed and resolved.
Thoughts about Issues #3 and #4: [Disclosure] I sit on the board at CRYPSA and draft whitepapers and position statements.*
Blockchain Building: Dwindling Incentives
Financial incentives for miners can be replaced by non-financial awards, such as recognition, governance, gaming, stakeholder lotteries, and exchange reputation points. I am barely scratching the surface. Others will come up with more creative ideas.
Last year, at the 2015 MIT Bitcoin Expo, Keynote speaker Andreas Antonopoulos expressed confidence that Bitcoin will survive the sunset of miner incentives. He proposed some novel methods of ongoing validation incentives—most notably, a game theory replacement. Of course, another possibility is the use of very small transaction fees to continue financial incentives.
Personally, I doubt that direct financial incentives—in the form of microcash payments— will be needed. Ultimately, I envision an ecosystem in which everyone who uses Bitcoin to buy, sell, gift, trade, or invest will avoid fees while creating fluidity—by sharing the CPU burden. All users will validate at least one Blockchain transaction for every 5 transactions of their own.
Today, that burden is complex by design, because it reflects increasing competition to find a diminishing cache of unmined coins. But without that competition, the CPU overhead will be trivial. In fact, it seems likely that a validation mechanism could be built into every personal wallet and every mobile device app. The potential for massive crowd-sourced scrutiny has the added benefit of making the blockchain more robust: Trusted, speedy, and resistant to attack.
Transaction Privacy & Anonymity
Bitcoin’s lack of rock-solid, forensic-thwarting anonymity is a weak point that must ultimately be addressed. It’s not about helping criminals, it’s about liberty and freedoms. Detectives & forensic labs have classic methods of pursuing criminals. It is not our job to offer interlopers an identity, serial number and traceable event for every transaction.
Anonymity can come in one of three ways. Method #3 is least desirable:
Add complex, multi-stage, multi-party mixing to every transaction—including random time delays, and parsing out fragments for real purchases and payments. To be successful, mixing must be ubiquitous. That is, it must be active with every wallet and every transaction by default. Ideally, it should even be applied to idle funds. This thwarts both forensic analysis
and earnest but misguided attempts to create a registry of ‘tainted’ coins.
Fork by consensus: Add anonymizing technology by copying a vetted, open source alt-coin
Migrate to a new coin with robust, anonymizing tech at its core. To be effective, it must respect all BTC stakeholders with no other ownership, pre-mined or withheld distribution. Of course, it must be open, transparent and permissionless—with an opportunity and incentive for all users to be miners, or more specifically, to be bookkeepers.
That’s my opinion on the sunset of mining incentives and on transaction anonymity.
—What’s yours?
* Philip Raymond is co-chair of the Cryptocurrency Standards
Association. He was host and MC for the Bitcoin Event in New York.
2
68
1
4
Total Shares 75
Tags: anonymity, bitcoin, blockchain, coinidol, Jacob Okonya, mining, mining incentive, privacy, transaction validation
0 comments
Leave a reply
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website

Submit comment

Log in for authorized contributors.


Tag cloud
aging AI Apple bitcoin Black Holes blockchain CERN collective intelligence colonization Cortese Franco culture design education Einstein existential risks extinction Fermi Paradox future futurism Google Gravity Modification Harry J. Bentham health humanity immortality interstellar propulsion Interstellar Travel LHC Life extension longevity media & arts NASA Neuroscience nuclear politics research risks singularity space SpaceX sustainability technology Terrorism The Kline Directive transhumanism
Categories
3D printing
4D printing
Peter Diamandis
DNA
Ray Kurzweil
Elon Musk
Singularity University
Skynet
Mark Zuckerberg
aging
alien life
anti-gravity
architecture
asteroid/comet impacts
astronomy
augmented reality
automation
bees
big data
bioengineering
biological
bionic
bioprinting
biotech/medical
bitcoin
business
chemistry
climatology
complex systems
computing
cosmology
counterterrorism
cryonics
cryptocurrencies
cybercrime/malcode
cyborgs
defense
disruptive technology
driverless cars
drones
economics
education
electronics
employment
encryption
energy
engineering
entertainment
environmental
ethics
events
evolution
existential risks
exoskeleton
finance
first contact
food
fun
futurism
general relativity
genetics
geography
geopolitics
governance
government
gravity
habitats
hacking
hardware
health
holograms
homo sapiens
human trajectories
humor
information science
innovation
internet
journalism
law
law enforcement
lifeboat
life extension
machine learning
mapping
materials
mathematics
media & arts
military
mobile phones
moore's law
nanotechnology
neuroscience
nuclear energy
nuclear weapons
open access
open source
particle physics
philosophy
physics
policy
polls
posthumanism
privacy
quantum physics
rants
robotics/AI
satellites
science
scientific freedom
security
sex
singularity
software
solar power
space
space travel
strategy
supercomputing
surveillance
sustainability
telepathy
terrorism
theory
thought controlled
time travel
tractor beam
transhumanism
transparency
transportation
treaties
virtual reality
water
weapons
wearables
Top 10 Authors
Karen Hurst
Shailesh Prasad
Seb
Sean Brazell
Klaus Baldauf
Andreas Matt
Odette Gregory
Andres Agostini
Dan Kummer
Elmar Arunov
show all
Blogroll
Next Big Future
Plausible Futures
SingularityHUB
WIRED
Advanced Features
Avoid LHC Conversations
GETAS THREAT LEVEL:
GUARDED
TOP DONOR:
BRIAN CARTMELL
#2 DONOR:
DONALD MACLEAN
#3 DONOR:
SERGIO M.L. TARRERO
#4 DONOR:
JEFF BONE/TOPSIGHT FUND
LF FUND: $579,435.52
BITCOIN ENDOWMENT: $435,154.08
A-PRIZE: $30,001.00
NANOSHIELD: $3,906.00
X-RISKS NETWORK: $3,100.00
AISHIELD: $3,585.00
LIFEBOAT NEWS: 2,389 SUBSCRIBERS
GETAS ALERTS: 375 SUBSCRIBERS
BLOG: 12,926 POSTS
BOARDS: 2,630 MEMBERS
REPORTS: 55
PROGRAMS: 26
FORUMS: 13
QUOTES: 136
FACEBOOK: 6,182 MEMBERS
LINKEDIN: 1,055 MEMBERS
TWITTER FEED: 92,227 MEMBERS
FIGHT AIDS: 27 MEMBERS
FOLDING@HOME: 15 MEMBERS
ROSETTA@HOME: 37 MEMBERS
A-PRIZE: 55 MEMBERS
NANOSHIELD: 68 MEMBERS
AISHIELD: 25 MEMBERS
DONORS: 810
LF-500: 13 MEMBERS
PATRON: 1 MEMBER
FIRST CLASS: 1 MEMBER
EXECUTIVE: 12 MEMBERS
ECONOMY: 23 MEMBERS
A-500: 1 MEMBER
© 2002–2016 Lifeboat Foundation