http://themerkle.com/buy-discounted-electronics-with-bitcoin-during-singles-day/
Buy Discounted Electronics With Bitcoin During Singles’ Day – The Merkle
MENU
HomeNewsCryptocurrencyBuy Discounted Electronics With Bitcoin During Singles’ Day
Buy Discounted Electronics With Bitcoin During Singles’ Day
JP Buntinx November 11, 2016 Cryptocurrency, News
It is a special holiday among Asian shoppers today, as November 11th is Singles Day. Unlike the Western world’s Valentine’s Day, this holiday is the one day of the year where consumers are nudged to buy things for themselves rather than someone else. Good discounts can be scored among sites such as AliExpress, Banggood, and Gearbest. In fact, it is possible to spend Bitcoin there too, albeit with a slight workaround.
SINGLES DAY IS THE SHOPPING EVENT FOR INDIVIDUALS
Our society has many strange holidays, most of which have an origin very few people care about. A holiday is an excellent reason not to go to work, depending on which sector one is active in. But in Asia, they take this day very seriously, as it is the Black Friday of Asian shopping, so to speak.
Major outlets such as AliExpress, Banggood, and Gearbest have substantial discounts throughout the day, ranging between 30 and 50% in most cases. For anyone looking to buy something for themselves, this is the day to score some bargains. Ranging from electronics to fashion and kitchen equipment to pet toys, everything is discounted.
Bitcoin users can take part in this special event as well, as there are multiple portals accepting Bitcoin payments for these sites. Granted, they are all intermediate services, but it offers Bitcoin users a way to spend cryptocurrency on their discounted purchases. After all, cryptocurrency must be spent as a regular currency, rather than sit in a wallet.



Another option is to use one of the many Bitcoin debit cards in existence. AliExpress and consorts all accept either PayPal or credit card payments directly, and none of these services is discriminating between Bitcoin cards or bank cards. In fact, Singles’ Day is a great day to explore Bitcoin Debit card offerings, which are plentiful these days.
It will take some time until these Asian retailers accept Bitcoin payments directly. Most of them are located in China, a region where bitcoin regulation can be introduced at any time. Moreover, the PBOC advised companies not to deal in Bitcoin directly several years ago, and a lot of business owners stick to that warning.
One thing is certain: Bitcoin users are crafty and will find a way to spend cryptocurrency on whatever it is they need. Singles’ Day is a perfect holiday for the geeks among us, as plenty of electronics can be snatched up for bottom prices. Moreover, those special people in your life deserve a gift now and then, and now is a good time to stock up on Christmas presents.
If you liked this article, follow us on Twitter @themerklenews and make sure to subscribe to our newsletter to receive the latest bitcoin, cryptocurrency, and technology news.
Related Posts
XBTmine Review
GDAX Users Can Now Trade Litecoin Against USD and Bitcoin
Bitfinex to Allow Ethereum Margin Trading
About The Author
Jdebunt
JP Buntinx is a 30-year old FinTech and Bitcoin enthusiast living in Belgium. His passion for finance and technology made him one of the world's leading freelance Bitcoin writers, and he is working to achieve the same level of respect in the FinTech sector.
SEARCH SITE
Search
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
Samsung Pay Incentivizes Users With New Rewards …
November 15, 2016
Visa Wants To Replace Passwords With Multiple …
November 15, 2016
OCBC Bank Pilots Blockchain-based Funds Transfer Between …
November 15, 2016
SUBSCRIBE
Subscribe to our mailing list
RECENT POSTS
Incent To Offer Its ICO Technology To Other Organizations Focusing On Loyalty Rewards November 25, 2016
Developing Nations Show A Great Appetite For Payment Card Acceptance November 25, 2016
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
CONNECT WITH US
The Merkle Copyright © 2016.