http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/04/bitmain-response-new-mining-center/
Bitmain Responds to Controversy Surrounding its Upcoming 140,000 kW Mining Center - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
06:35 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitmain Responds to Controversy Surrounding its Upcoming 140,000 kW Mining Center
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News



Bitmain, the Bitcoin mining equipment manufacturer has clarified its role in the new 140,000 kW data center. Read more...
The distribution of Bitcoin hashing power is one of the most debated subjected among the Bitcoin community members. Recent reports of Bitmain’s upcoming mining facility has got people talking about the increasing dominance of Chinese mining pools in terms of hashing power. The announcement also garnered a reaction from Peter Todd, one of the well-known names in the Bitcoin development community.
In his Twitter reaction to reports of new upcoming 140,000 kW Bitmain mining facility in Xinjiang on Chinese Bitcoin forums, he said:
Todd’s response is in line with the concerns of rapid centralization of Bitcoin network, which may shake the very foundation upon which the cryptocurrency is built on.
In response to the allegations of increased dominance of the Bitcoin network by the Chinese Bitcoin mining equipment manufacturer, the company has since then clarified that it will be holding a minor share in the new 45 room facility. Other miners, individuals or companies will be the major shareholders in the facility. Bitmain’s response was in the form of a two-part tweet reading,
“We own only a minor share in that planned facility. A majority is owned by other miners who can mine bitcoin or any altcoin with any hardware they prefer.”
According to available information, the Bitmain Cloud Computing Center in Xinjiang, Mainland China will be a 45 room facility with three internal filters maintaining a clean environment. The 140,000 kW facility will also include independent substations and office space.
Building data centers and renting it out to interested miners is not a new concept. There are many companies across the world who have invested in facilities, offering everything that is required to plug in the miners and start mining. In order to use the facility, the miners will pay a fixed amount, including utility bills and other charges incurred while maintaining trouble-free operations.
Bitmain’s new data center will encourage individuals and small cryptocurrency groups to invest in mining equipment and start mining cryptocurrencies of their choice, including Bitcoin.
Ref: @petertoddbtc | @BITMAINtech | CyBTC | Image: CyBTC
  PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.