http://www.universityherald.com/articles/46162/20161026/university-without-a-teacher-42.htm
A University Without Teachers Has Just Opened in California : Special Reports : University Herald
Friday, Nov 25 2016 | Updated at 10:49 PM EST
Stay Connected With Us F T R
Opinion
Academics
Students
Special Reports
Sports
Finance
Tech
Career
College
Video
Oct 26, 2016 12:28 PM EDT
By Chris Brandt, UniversityHerald Reporter
A University Without Teachers Has Just Opened in California
42 is an innovative college because it has no teacher. Instead, it encourages peer-to-peer learning where students teach each other.
(Photo : Matt Cardy/Getty Images)
Imagine if you are a parent and you are accompanying your freshman child on their first day in college but there are no teachers around. In fact, there are no teachers at all. As strange as it may sound, there really is a college like this that exists in California.
Even the name of the college is quite strange as well - 42, which was the answer to the meaning of life from the science fiction series 'The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.' The university was first established in Paris in 2013 by the French technology billionaire Xavier Niel and aims to teach hundreds of students every year how in coding and software development
The idea of 42 is to allow students to collaborate, teach, and mark each other's works through projects based learning. This means that students can choose which project they want to be involved in based on the target job they want to have in the future. For example, if they set themselves to become a software engineer, most of the projects he or she will be given will be related to or revolved around this.
Once they chose a project, they can complete it by using any resource or tool available on the Internet, or they can ask their peers for help. Seeking help is easy since the setting is an open-plan room filled with computers. Then, another student will be chosen randomly to check their work. Graduation takes place when students reach level 21 which usually takes three to five years.
The setting might look like it's headed toward chaos since there are no supervising teacher around. However, founder Niel said that this kind of learning makes students work much better with others and are more able to defend their ideas which, he said, are very important skills in the real world.
"Peer-to-peer learning develops students with the confidence to search for solutions by themselves, often in quite creative and ingenious ways," he added.
The idea might still be new and strange but the college seems to be doing something right because a lot of its graduates are already working in large tech companies, such as IBM, Tesla, and Amazon while large number is starting their own companies.
Tags university without a teacher, 42, Xavier Niel
© 2016 University Herald, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Shop Related Products
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
$12.46$14.99
(33)
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
$3.99
(1378)
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
$7.99
(1917)
The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
$12.01$20.00
(1711)
All
Ads by Amazon
Related Articles
Finland Is Not Just Education Crazy, It's Emoji Crazy, Too
Nobel Peace Prize Winners, Educators Under Cyber-Attacks
Donald Trump Won't Be Able To Use Charity Money To Settle Lawsuit For University ...
Colleges And Universities Rise Up To Defend Undocumented Students
College Football Player Shoots High School Girlfriend In Her Sleep
Sponsored by Revcontent
Trending Today
Mamá Millonaria De Lima Cuenta La Historia De Cómo Se Gana $472/hr Desde Casa
Millonaria de Lima Revela Cómo Gana $472 la Hora Desde Casa
¡No Necesitas Operarte Para Quitar Los Juanetes!
Millonaria De Lima Expone Cómo Gana 527€/hora Desde Casa
Generate A High-Quality User Experience with Revcontent
Join Revcontent To Increase User Engagement and Reach
Google AMP Builds a Better User Experience on Mobile
Patch.com Chooses Revcontent for Superior Ad Quality and User Experience
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
MUST READ
’The Walking Dead’s Carl Dies In Series? Chandler Riggs Leaving Show For College Education
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
Chandler Riggs is reportedly looking at a different option in his career life. Is he leaving “The Walking Dead” for college? ...
NASA Enlists SpaceX To Take The First Survey Of Earth's Surface Water
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
SpaceX has won the NASA launch contract for the first-ever survey of the Earth's surface water. ...
William Baldwin Talks Project Zero With Massapequa Teachers
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
William “Billy” Baldwin, a co-founder of the Massapequa Community Fund, supports teachers in the district. ...
Personal Finance 101 For College Students: How To Save More At 20
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
You can save money even if you are only 20 years old. With few, simple steps you are able to do it. ...
MOST POPULAR
‘Rick and Morty’ Season 3 Air Date & Update: Series Creators Pushes Release Date to 2017; Plot Suggests Rick’s Escape From Galactic Federation Prison
Nov 23, 2016 PM EST
The third iteration for Adult Swim series’ "Rick and Morty" is reportedly adjusting its timeline release for 2017, according to its series creators ...
iOS 10 Jailbreak Pangu to be Open Source?; An Engineer Links to Pangu Hints at Delayed Release [RUMOR]
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
Pangu remains silent of its iOS 10 jailbreak tool but a new report indicates that the release date could be imminent. ...
Google Nexus 7 Tablet could Steal The Limelight in 2017; Here's Why!
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
Google Nexus 7 and all of its speculations have been circulating through the web for awhile. After investigating all the rumors, these are the ...
‘Pokemon Sun and Moon’ Updates: Pokemon Bank Allows Pokemon Transfer From 6th gen Franchises To ‘Sun and Moon’; How To Transfer Revealed [VIDEO]
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
With the current hype on “Pokemon Sun and Moon’s” global release, Nintendo’s Pokemon Bank service on the 3DS can now make Pokemon transfer ...
‘One Punch Man’ Season 2 Spoilers And Release Date: Saitama Turns Into A Villain With New Fatal Enemies? [Video]
Nov 23, 2016 PM EST
One Punch Man Season two might feature Saitama return as a villain? This plus the return of Lord Boros and a new villain and more are in the works for ...
‘Pokemon GO’ Second Generation Release Date: New Set of Pokemon Released in December with Improved Nearby Tracking System? [VIDEO]
Nov 25, 2016 AM EST
There’s two good news for “Pokemon GO” players out there. First, the release date of second generation Pokemons have been accidentally revealed ...
’The Walking Dead’s Carl Dies In Series? Chandler Riggs Leaving Show For College Education
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
Chandler Riggs is reportedly looking at a different option in his career life. Is he leaving “The Walking Dead” for college? ...
NES Classic Edition Controller Short Cord Length Explained; Much Shorter Than Original [VIDEO]
Nov 25, 2016 AM EST
The probable reason why the NES Classic Edition controller cord length is short has been revealed. A comparison was made between the current ...
Android 7.1 Nougat Rollout to Nexus and Pixel Devices – Check if Nexus 9 and Pixel C are Included [VIDEO]
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
The second developer preview of Android 7.1 Nougat has been released to selected Nexus and Pixel devices. Check the list of eligible devices here! ...
Secret Method To Acquire Level 10 Salamence On First Island Of ‘Pokemon Sun And Moon’ Revealed [VIDEO]
Nov 22, 2016 AM EST
"Pokemon Sun and Moon" has a new mechanic called S.O.S. Battles, which allows the little monsters that have been found to call for help when they need ...
Get Our FREE Newsletters
Stay Connected With Us F T R
About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us
Copyright © 2016 UNIVERSITY HERALD All rights reserved. Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.

28
SHARES