http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mgt-capital-updates-shareholders-on-bitcoin-mining-operations-300337882.html
MGT Capital Updates Shareholders on Bitcoin Mining Operations
Contact Us
Journalists
Blog
Log In
Sign Up
Send a Release
News
Solutions
Resources
Search
News in Focus
Business & Money
Science & Tech
Lifestyle & Health
Policy & Public Interest
People & Culture
MGT Capital Updates Shareholders on Bitcoin Mining Operations
Company moving forward with Phase Two of its Bitcoin operation
NEWS PROVIDED BY
MGT Capital Investments, Inc.
Oct 03, 2016, 09:10 ET
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
HARRISON, N.Y., Oct. 3, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- MGT Capital Investments, Inc. (NYSE MKT: MGT), updated shareholders today on its wholly-owned large scale Bitcoin mining operation in central Washington state. After the first full month of operations, the Company is pleased to have delivered on the metrics it outlined on September 13, 2016. Specifically, the Company has mined over 90 Bitcoins, presently valued at approximately $611 each. Also, MGT has begun to implement Phase Two of its Bitcoin mining operations scheduled to expand its processing power to more than five PetaHash by the end of the fourth quarter of 2016.
The Company has successfully executed on its strategy to maximize profits from mining operations by capitalizing on low cost hydroelectricity and using proprietary software to optimize and manage the performance of its machines. In addition, MGT is utilizing state-of-the-art 16 nanometer ASIC chips and highly efficient power supplies, further reducing the power requirements of mining operations.
"I wish to thank our shareholders for the positive feedback we have received since completing the first phase of our Bitcoin project. Our machines have been working flawlessly at full potential with a very high level of efficiency. We are excited and ready for the expansion of this activity as we implement the second planned phase," stated Robert Collazo, Director of Operations for MGT's Bitcoin mining operations.
John McAfee, Executive Chairman of MGT, commented, "The cash flow opportunity in the Bitcoin market provides tremendous financial benefit to our operations and balance sheet. At our current output, we believe MGT is one of the top five Bitcoin miners in the U.S., and we believe our first quarter 2017 goal of 10 PetaHash for this facility would place MGT in a leadership position in the global Bitcoin network. Moreover, I cannot emphasize enough how an operation of this scale provides us with a key competitive advantage for developing security and privacy applications and platforms using the Blockchain." 
About MGT Capital Investments, Inc.
MGT Capital Investments, Inc. (NYSE MKT: MGT) is in the process of acquiring a diverse portfolio of cyber security technologies. With cyber security industry pioneer John McAfee at its helm, MGT Capital is positioned to address various cyber threats through advanced protection technologies for mobile and personal tech devices, including tablets and smartphones. The Company is currently in the process of acquiring D-Vasive, a provider of leading edge anti-spy software, and Demonsaw, a provider of a secure and anonymous file sharing software platform.
MGT Capital intends to change its corporate name to "John McAfee Global Technologies, Inc." upon closing of the D-Vasive transaction.
For more information on the Company, please visit http://ir.stockpr.com/mgtci.
Forward–looking Statements
This press release contains forward–looking statements. The words or phrases "would be," "will allow," "intends to," "will likely result," "are expected to," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimate," "project," or similar expressions are intended to identify "forward–looking statements." MGT's financial and operational results reflected above should not be construed by any means as representative of the current or future value of its common stock. All information set forth in this news release, except historical and factual information, represents forward–looking statements. This includes all statements about the Company's plans, beliefs, estimates and expectations. These statements are based on current estimates and projections, which involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include issues related to: rapidly changing technology and evolving standards in the industries in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate; the ability to obtain sufficient funding to continue operations, maintain adequate cash flow, profitably exploit new business, license and sign new agreements; the unpredictable nature of consumer preferences; and other factors set forth in the Company's most recently filed annual report and registration statement. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward–looking statements, which reflect management's analysis only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise these forward–looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date hereof. Readers should carefully review the risks and uncertainties described in other documents that the Company files from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investor Contact
Garth Russell
Managing Director
KCSA Strategic Communications
grussell@kcsa.com
212.896.1250
Grace Livingston
Director of Investor Relations
MGT Capital
glivingston@mgtci.com
205.999.2524
Media Contact
Tiffany Madison
Director of Corporate Communications
MGT Capital Investments, Inc.
tmadison@mgtci.com
469.236.9569
Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130409/NY91046LOGO
  SOURCE MGT Capital Investments, Inc.
Related Links
http://www.mgtci.com

Also from this source
NOV 18, 2016, 11:20 ET
MGT Officially Appoints John McAfee as Chief Executive Officer
NOV 15, 2016, 16:07 ET
MGT Provides Investor Update and Financial Results for the Third...
Explore
More news releases in similar topics
Computer Electronics
Banking & Financial Services
You just read:
MGT Capital Updates Shareholders on Bitcoin Mining Operations
NEWS PROVIDED BY
MGT Capital Investments, Inc.
Oct 03, 2016, 09:10 ET
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
Contact
888-776-0942
from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
Chat Online with an Expert
Contact Us
Solutions
Cision Communication Cloud™
For Marketers
For Public Relations
For IR & Compliance
For Agency
For Small Business
All Products
About
About PR Newswire
About Cision
Become a Publishing Partner
Become a Channel Partner
Careers
  Global Sites
My Services
All News Releases
Online Member Center
ProfNet℠

Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Information Security Policy Statement
Site Map
RSS Feeds
Copyright © 2016 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Cision company.
News
News in Focus
Business & Money
Science & Tech
Lifestyle & Health
Policy & Public Interest
People & Culture