https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/bitcoin-buying-gets-boost-new-blockchain-coinify-partnership/
Bitcoin Buying Gets a Boost with New Blockchain-Coinify Partnership - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin ProgressBitcoin ServicesBitcoin Wallets
Bitcoin Buying Gets a Boost with New Blockchain-Coinify Partnership
Samburaj Das on 15/11/2016

111
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
B
lockchain, arguably bitcoin’s most prominent wallet provider has commenced beta-testing a feature that will enable users to fund their bitcoin wallets near-instantaneously and directly. The feature comes as the result of a partnership between Blockchain and Danish Fintech payments startup Coinify.
  Following the announcement, Blockchain CEO Peter Smith stated:
This announcement represents a giant step forward in making bitcoin, still a nascent currency, a more compelling and efficient financial solution for new users.
  The in-wallet buying feature is aimed to circumvent the traditional process of buying that typically sees high fees, identity verification hurdles and intermediary service providers. The new buying option, powered by Coinify’s payment platform, will facilitate the process of purchasing bitcoin with near-instant wallet funding via credit or debit cards.
The feature will see an initial rollout in the UK.
“For the first time, users will not be subject to the delays, complexities, and security risks that have plagued digital currency adoption in the past,” Smith stated. “This partnership will make our wallet infinitely more user-friendly and, ultimately, more accessible for the mass market.
Users will also be able to purchase bitcoin directly with their bank accounts, albeit at the speed at which banks process the transaction.
The feature will see an initial rollout in its beta phase in the UK, followed by a European expansion, with select invite-only participants before tweaking the product for a global launch.
Blockchain reveals its bitcoin wallet market share, dominating with a 50% cut of the pie with over 100 million transactions globally.
Big on Bitcoin
Coinify’s partnership with Blockchain is perhaps its most notable collaboration in the blockchain space, but the blockchain-based services and payments enabler is heavily involved in the bitcoin industry, globally. Earlier this year, Coinify partnered Bitcoin Vietnam Co. Ltd., Vietnam’s first bitcoin exchange to facilitate bitcoin acceptance among merchants in the country.
  Speaking to CCN, a representative for Coinify underlined the significance of the feature in one of the fastest-growing economies of the world.
Owing to the fact that Coinify and Bitcoin Vietnam will launch the first merchant processing platform tailored for the country, this can be [used by] basically any online business/ shop owner in Vietnam.
  More recently, Coinify announced a partnership with Hong Kong payments provider iPayDNA to enable blockchain payments to merchants in the Asia-Pacific region.
Coinify saw a multi-million investment round of funding, estimated at over $25 million, as early as 2014. More recently, Coinify raised $4 million in a Series A funding round led by Swedish banking investor SEB.
Images from Shutterstock.
111
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Bitcoin Progress, Bitcoin Services, Bitcoin Wallets, News Tagged in: blockchain, Coinify

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextHong Kong Monetary Authority Sees Blockchain as a Money Laundering Risk15/11/2016
PreviousYour Lifetime Might Become Money on the Ethereum Blockchain Thanks to this Startup15/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.