http://www.crowdfundinsider.com/2016/10/91487-chinese-government-publishes-white-paper-blockchain/
Chinese Government Publishes White Paper on Blockchain - Crowdfund Insider
Home
Featured
Portal News
Politics
Offerings
Strategy
Fintech
More
Search
Chinese Government Publishes White Paper on Blockchain
in
Share
26
October 23, 2016 @ 6:06 pm By JD Alois
The Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, along with the National Standardization Committee, Chinese Blockchain Technology and others have published a white-paper on Blockchain technology. The document has been in the works since this past August.
The Bank of England stated recently that 24 countries are currently investing in distributed ledger technology (blockchain) and more than 90 central banks are engaged in some sort of discussion regarding the emerging technology with a majority of banks expected to initiate some sort of distributed ledger project by next year. So it really should not be much of a surprise the Chinese are pushing forward with their own internal and public musings on the utilization of blockchain technology and, perhaps, the creation of their very own bespoke digital coin.
Chinese officials held a symposium in January of this year that included Deloitte Touche, Citibank and more to review the potential of digital currencies and blockchain technology. China is very serious about moving forward and may feel compelled to be the first central bank authority to utilize distributed ledger technology.  The ultimate goal will be to standardize the process and create a more efficient and secure method of financial transactions. While payments is certainly a focal point the Chinese officials see other uses while mitigating fraud. Bitcoin.com reported that the document set a deadline of October 2017 for defining standards.
The white paper, in Chinese, is embedded below.
View this document on Scribd
    by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
You May Like
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Soldiers: Free Online Game
This Strategy Game Will Keep You Up All Night!
Pirates: Free Online Game
10 Easy Skin Secrets Dermatologists Don’t Want You to Know
Womensarticle.com
Which of These Top 2 Website Builders is Right for You?
Top 10 Best Website Builders
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple Solution
My Snoring Solution
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Smart Device Trends
You may also like...
Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance Announces Research on Blockchain
Bitbond is the World’s First P2P Lender Using Digital Currency
IBM Research: Banks Will Embrace Full Scale Commercial Blockchain by 2019
Former SEC Commissioner Dan Gallagher Joins Board of Blockchain Company Symbiont
China: WeiyangX Fintech Review
China Online Insurer ZhongAn Announces New Fintech Incubator
China: WeiyangX Fintech Review
Australian Government Eyeing Big Banks to Prevent Blockchain Monopolization
Rakuten Acquires Bitnet, Plans to Open Blockchain Lab in Northern Ireland
China: WeiyangX Fintech Review
China: WeiyangX Fintech Review
China: WeiyangX Fintech Review
Hitachi Teams Up With BTMU For New Blockchain Project to Check Digitalization in Singapore
Can the U.S. & Europe Keep Up with Asia in Fintech Investments?
Digital Cash: UBS, Clearmatics, Deutsche Bank, Santander, ICAP and BNY Mellon Align to Test Blockchain in “Real-Market”
in
Share
26
This entry was posted in Asia, Fintech, Global and tagged blockchain, china, distributed ledger technology. Bookmark the permalink.
Sign up for a weekly emailed update
Subscribe
.
.
.
.
You Might Also Like
SoFi COO Joanne Bradford: In 5 Years We Are Going to Look Very Different Than Today
Ron Suber on Marketplace Lending: Keep Calm & Lend On (Deck)
Canadian Marketplace Lender Vault Circle Receives New License
Report: DealStruck Shuts Down Operations [u]
UK Start Up Loan Program Funds 25,000th Business
From Around the Web
"Erases Wrinkles Too Fast?" New Anti-Wrinkle Method Unveiled
Forget Pepper Spray, All Women Need This
Hurry Before This Video Gets Banned
Millionaires Prefer To Keep This Video A Secret
Find Every Secret They Want Kept Hidden
?

Research: European Alternative Finance Jumps to €5.4 billion in 2015
PatentAngels Wants to Crowdfund Companies with Patent Rights
Finally. Australian Parliament Re-Introduces Crowdfunding Legislation
Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond's Autumn Statement: Further Support for Business Including Fintech
China: WeiyangX Fintech Review
Mark Elenowitz of TriPoint Global: Reg A+ is the Future of IPOs
German Finance Ministry Publishes Report on Fintech: Very High Growth in Recent Years
Neuroprofiler: Risk Profiling & Suitability Testing Based on Behavioral Finance
Embed This
UPCOMING EVENTS
Crowdsourcing Week Europe 2016 – Brussels
November 21 - November 25
Go F**tech Yourself — An Official Slush Pre-Event – Helsinki
November 29 @ 4:00 am - 10:00 pm
Startup Canada Grand Finale Awards 2016 – Toronto
November 29 @ 5:30 pm - 9:00 pm
Slush – Helsinki
November 30 - December 1
Small Business Forum – Washington, DC
November 30 @ 2:30 pm - 5:00 pm
View All Events
Contact Us

Crowdfund Insider
Fintech Insider
PO Box 221196
Beachwood OH 44122

Info: info@crowdfundinsider.com
Support: support@crowdfundinsider.com

CI on Twitter
CI on Facebook
CI on LinkedIn
CI on Google+
Categories
Featured Headlines
General News
Crowdfunding Portals
Politics
Strategy
Offerings
Global
Services
Submit a Tip
Advertise on Crowdfund Insider
About Us
Crowdfunding Guide
FAQ
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Admin
asia australia california canada charity china crowdcube equity europe event fca film fintech france games gaming germany gofundme hardware health indiegogo jobs act kickstarter lending club london marketplace medical music new zealand p2p peer to peer perspective real estate regulation a regulations research sec seedrs singapore tactics technology title III uk united kingdom video games
© 2016 Crowded Media Group. All Rights Reserved.