http://www.coindesk.com/is-bitcoin-the-future-of-blockchain-post-trade/
Could Bitcoin Be the Future of Blockchain Post Trade? - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$728
$733
$739
USD -0.05%
$737.90
CNY 0.19%
¥5,194.38
EUR €696.51
GBP £591.16
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
BANKING  •  FEATURES
Could Bitcoin Be the Future of Blockchain Post Trade?
Sid Kalla | Published on October 13, 2016 at 17:10 GMT
FEATURE
387
100
1
Conventional thinking about blockchain technology's use in stock markets may be wrong, according to one academic.
The argument was put forward by Professor David Yermack, chairman of the finance department at New York University, this week at Imperial College London's first FinTech-focused academic conference.
There, Yermack presented an unpublished report that argues blockchains will evolve differently in capital markets than widely expected. For example, according to Yermack, functions such as stock settlements will one day be carried out on public blockchains like bitcoin, as opposed to private or premissioned alternatives.
Overall, Yermack, who teaches a cryptocurrency course at NYU’s Stern School of Business, offered a much broader vision for the use of blockchain in finance than what the industry is considering, as well as more critical takes on how incumbents are exploring the tech.
Taking a dig at DTCC, for instance, Yermack said its report "Embracing Disruption" did little to show or illustrate how blockchain could change the current state of affairs.
Agents of change
That's not to say that Yermack didn't take a measured view of public blockchains.
On the contrary, Yermak acknowledged the limitations of bitcoin's throughput and its proof-of-work consensus system today, but noted that it's something he believes the industry will need to work out better solutions for.
Still, he insisted that the future of finance will be brought about by a real decentralized blockchains that don’t have monopolies that guard access to stocks, bonds and currencies.
Speaking of the direction where the disruption will come from, Yermack sees three potential players. These include challengers (complete outsiders looking for disruption); collaborators (like the DTCC and R3); and regulators (countries like the UK, Australia, and Canada).
Overall, he believes that the challengers were the most likely to succeed, but that some regulators (like those in the UK) are better positioned to bring about change than others.
Quick wins
Interestingly, Yermack believes one of the easiest and quickest ways for the industry to move to a blockchain model is by exploring use cases in corporate elections by shareholders, an avenue already being pursued by Nasdaq.
Yermack said shareholder voting on corporate elections is currently inefficient when it comes to vote counting, and that the voting results are often plus or minus 5% of what they should be.
Further, in the current model, there are many challenges when it comes to corporate elections, he said. There are various different ledgers of ownership, maintained by the company, the broker, and the market in general, which gives rise to different voting results.
Broadridge, which has what he called "a monopoly that is very inefficient" administers corporate elections voting, is also interested in blockchains.
But, Yermack went beyond words, showing that corporate elections are prone to favor management proposals. Such issues, he believes, could be eliminated with the help of blockchain-based voting systems.
Images via Sid Kalla for CoinDesk
EuropeImperial Collegepost tradeUK
387
100
1
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Blockchain Stock Market Startup Funderbeam Raises $2.6...
NEXT ARTICLE
UN Considers Blockchain in Search for Sustainability...
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
FEATURE
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:00 | Michael del Castillo
The Swiss Government is Paving the Way for Crypto Banks
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
NEWS
Nov 15, 2016 at 21:15 | Pete Rizzo
Sweden's Central Bank Considers Digital Currency Use
Sweden's central bank could soon launch its own digital currency – though it hasn't yet decided how the offering would work.
NEWS
Nov 14, 2016 at 17:13 | Stan Higgins
Bitcoin Wallet Blockchain to Add Buying Option
Bitcoin wallet company Blockchain is beta testing a new in-wallet purchase option in partnership with payments startup Coinify.
NEWS
Nov 10, 2016 at 18:07 | Pete Rizzo
Deutsche Bank: Capital Markets Expect Blockchain Impact Within 6 Years
Three out of four capital markets participants believe distributed ledger tech will see widespread use within the next six years.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.