http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/news/2016/10/24/0200000000AEN20161024008300320.html
S. Korea to expand system for digital currency
Latest News
(LEAD) IMO adopts statement regarding N. Korea missile launches
Pause
Prev
Next
Search
Search
2016-11-25 (Friday)
Weather
2.1℃
Seoul
1north korea
Facebook
Twitter
Rss
Global Navigation
HOME
NATIONAL
NORTH KOREA
BUSINESS
CULTURE/SPORTS
KOREAN WAVE
PHOTOS
FOCUS
Select Language
ALL HEADLINES
All Headlines
S. Korea to expand system for digital currency
2016/10/24 16:09
SEOUL, Oct. 24 (Yonhap) -- South Korea announced Monday it will lay the systemic groundwork for the spread of digital currency as part of efforts to promote financial technology, also called fintech.
"The government will push for the systematization of digital currency on a full scale in tandem with a global trend in the U.S., Japan and other countries," Yim Jong-yong, chairman of the Financial Services Commission (FSC), said in a speech at the 12th Fintech Center Demo Day event.
He added the government and the local financial industry will launch a consortium on blockchain within this year for joint research and pilot projects.
Blockchain is a key technology for the digital currency bitcoin, enabling data sharing across a network of individual computers. It records and tracks practically all bitcoin transactions.
Yim said the government will also offer 3 trillion won (US$2.65 billion) in financial support over the next three years for the development of the fintech sector.
Yim Jong-yong, chairman of the Financial Services Commission, delivers a speech at a fintech-related event in Seoul on Oct. 24, 2016. (Yonhap)
The FSC described the measures as the "basic direction" of the second-stage fintech development roadmap to be unveiled in the first quarter of 2017.
The government has so far focused on removing unnecessary regulations on the fintech field.
"In the second stage, the government will place a focus on re-designing the existing system to be suitable for the fintech environment," Yim said.
Meanwhile, the FSC signed a memorandum of understanding with the Monetary Authority of Singapore on bilateral cooperation on the fintech industry.
Under the accord, the two countries will exchange relevant information, knowledge and manpower.
South Korean and Singaporean officials pose for a photo after signing an accord on bilateral cooperation on the fintech industry in Seoul on Oct. 24, 2016. (Yonhap)
lcd@yna.co.kr
(END)
Most Viewed
Nexen Heroes sign ex-major league pitcher
2NE1 disbands after 7 yrs, Park Bom to leave YG Entertainment
Prosecutors grill SK exec, accelerate probe into influence-peddling scanda...
Ex-KDB chief questioned again over bribery allegations
Yonhap News Summary
More
Most Viewed Photos
N. Korea marks Yeonpyeong shelling
11-24 11:26
N.K. mourns death of ranking official
11-25 08:55
N.K. leader visits military unit
11-25 16:20
News Focus
N.K. nukes raising need for new formula for Koreas' unification
Third time is charm for hitters, not for pitchers, in baseball postseason
U.S. unlikely to permanently deploy strategic assets to S. Korea: experts
Samsung's governance change looms after scion joins board
S. Korea, U.S., Japan conduct trilateral maritime drill
S. Korea in 'wait-and-see' mode following report of sharing Tokyo Olympics
Hit by corruption charges, Lotte seeks to reboot reform measures
Korean shipyards forced to speed up restructuring moves
News
All headlines
National
North Korea
Business
Culture / Sports
Photo news
Graphic news
Focus
Most viewed
Special Features
Interviews
Features
Topics
Miscellaneous
Newspaper headlines
Today in Korean history
Yonhap News summary
Editorials from dailies
N.K. Newsletter
Vantage Point
Tools
RSS
Mobile Service
Twitter
Facebook
Information
Photo/Video Archives
Korea in brief
Useful links
Festival Calendar
Weather
Overseas Networks
About Yonhap
About Us
Contact Us
Subscription
Copyright
N.K Archives
N.K Newsletter
Vantage Point
Copyrights Yonhap News Agency. All Rights Reserved.