http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/17/bitcoin-price-technical-analysis-11172016-yearly-highs-sight/
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/17/2016 - Yearly Highs in Sight!
25-11-2016
07:09 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/17/2016 – Yearly Highs in Sight!
Author
Sarah Jenn
Categories
Analysis, Bitcoin
47



Bitcoin price is setting its sights on the yearly highs at $780 as bulls continue to gain traction.

SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Bitcoin Price Key Highlights
Bitcoin price staged a remarkably strong rally yesterday after a brief pullback to an area of interest highlighted in the previous article.
Price is just a few points away from the yearly highs around $780, at which profit-taking could take place.
Technical indicators are showing that the rally could carry on.
Bitcoin price is setting its sights on the yearly highs at $780 as bulls continue to gain traction.
Technical Indicators Signals
The 100 SMA is above the longer-term 200 SMA so the path of least resistance is still to the upside. The gap between the moving averages narrowed a bit when it seemed as though a downward crossover was about to take place. However, it looks like the MAs avoided this scenario and could continue to indicate the presence of bullish momentum.
Stochastic is also turning higher before even reaching the oversold area, also indicating that buyers are eager to get back in the game. RSI is also moving up so bitcoin price could follow suit all the way up to the $780 highs. Stronger bullish pressure could trigger a break past that level but there’s a huge chance that traders could book profits off those levels.
Market Events
Economic data from the US was all weaker than expected recently, and this may have been one of the factors weighing on the US currency against bitcoin price. PPI and industrial production fell short of expectations, hinting at a bit of a slowdown. US CPI and a speech by Fed Chairperson Yellen are lined up today and downbeat outcomes could continue to push the dollar lower.
But, as in the previous rallies, the surge in bitcoin price was seen to be spurred by the influx of funds from Chinese investors as the government took fresh efforts to devalue the yuan. This week, monetary authorities set the trading range of the local currency lower, leading traders from the mainland to pursue higher returns elsewhere and hedge their yuan holdings.
Aside from that, rumors of a large BTC trade at an exchange also led to renewed buying interest in the cryptocurrency.
Charts from SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
47
PUBLISHED BY
Sarah Jenn
Sarah has been involved in the cryptocurrency space since the very beginning. Having stumbled across well hidden discussions in early forums she immersed herself in the industry, and is now a leading author and consultant for a range of bitcoin companies. She loves DASH and mathematics. View all posts by Sarah Jenn
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.