https://cointelegraph.com/news/how-hillary-clinton-seeks-to-end-the-internet-bitcoin-and-the-free-world-op-ed
How Hillary Clinton Seeks to End The Internet, Bitcoin and The Free World (Op-Ed)
Toggle navigation
BTC
738.12
0.8%
ETH
9.40
1.25%
Advertise
  2016-11-07 01:10 PM
Author Evander Smart
How Hillary Clinton Seeks to End The Internet, Bitcoin and The Free World (Op-Ed)
9046 Total views 707 Total shares
It is 4:30 a.m. on Sunday morning, less than 72 hours before a new global ruler is chosen. It took me over 40 years to figure out that I am good for only six hours of sleep a night, not the recommended eight. I was going to get up now anyway, but the new stream of consciousness for my feelings on the future of this planet awakens me this morning. Am I doing all that I can to change what may prove to be fait accompli? Have I done enough to sooth my soul, when it’s all said and done? Did I take enough of a stand? Is voting alone enough? This time, no, it is not. The situation is that serious.
This article will take hours to write, but it matter not. I am obligated by divine purpose to send this message. If one person hears it and is profoundly affected, I have done my job. This is all that matters to me. Bringing a year’s worth of spin, bluster, promises and deception into one almost-but-not-really-digestible capsule for the Bitcoin community’s consumption. So let us begin.
Hillary Rodham Clinton is clearly, easily, the most corrupt and criminal candidate to ever run for the Presidency of the United States of America, and I will delve into a good chunk of her corrupt activities here, of which will take some time. If she were a little more ethical, and less devious, she would be barred from running for any public office ever again, under a legitimate political system. The felonies she has committed, both known and unknown, would imprison you or I for many years, if not our entire lives.
Yet, when you are a protected member of the political elite, when your own level of corruption, over the last thirty years, has bought you friends in the highest of places, you live above the law.
This article seeks to explain just how far above the law the Secretary of State went, and what comes next if she is allowed even more rope to strangle what freedom is left in “the land of the free.”
There is so much information available on the times and crimes of Hillary Clinton. If you do not know just how deep this rabbit hole of deception goes, it speaks to your apathy, if not your ignorance. In “the information age,” what we have learned over the last generation, without a shadow of a doubt, is that the Internet will reveal all of the skeletons you hide in your closet. We’re all online, exposing ourselves, while sharing and exposing others. You can hide who you truly are for only so long.
Hillary Clinton has been exposed throughout her failed attempts at serving the public as a New York Senator, her failed 2008 presidential bid against an African-American man nobody had ever heard of, and her extensive list of failures as Secretary of State, where the U.S. is in greater peril now than ever before. The Podesta emails, and other new sources, are airing her dirty laundry even more extensively throughout this 2016 presidential campaign. There are no more shadows for her crimes to hide now.
Before I state my case, it is important to understand the obligation to vote in a free society, at a minimum, and the value of voting. George Carlin famously said in his stand-up comedy act that "Those who vote lose the right to complain.” In reality, it is quite the opposite. If you fail to take a side, if you fail to care enough to get involved in the process, if you fail to come up with a better way, if you fail to get off your ass and do something about what happens next, then you are just the loudmouth who complains, but has forfeited your right to, due to your many failures along the way.
It’s far too easy, and really downright cowardly, to abstain or avoid voting. You can lie to yourself, and say that this is the “moral high ground.” That your voting makes you a part of, and complicit in, the flawed political system. The American two-party system is as corrupt, deceptive, and laughable as the “heels” and “faces” who provide you dinner theatre on Monday nights for World Wrestling Entertainment. At 10 p.m. they are at each other’s throats, but by midnight, they are giving each other “dap,“ jumping into their rental cars together, and taking their carnival to the next town for the next “card.”
Democrats and Republicans in the United States are no better, and are much worse. Pro wrestlers are not obligated to serve the public, or the greater good, by taking public offices of governance. They do not ask millions of dollars in donations from their constituents to perpetuate their lies and deception, only to double-cross their investors and voters in the years to come. Wrestlers are just here to entertain you, - “Are you not entertained?” said General Maximus Decimus Meridius in the film Gladiator - while politicians are purchased to deceive you, with a few exceptions.
The point of this is if you do not vote, you are either too apathetic, too cynical, or literally too ignorant to care about what happens next, so you forfeit your right to complain and “Rage against the Machine.” I used to think abstaining was the highest ground, but this is a false narrative to soothe our beaten soul. It is just what we tell ourselves when we don’t know what else to do, and it really is a sheep mentality. When it is the lesser of two evils, the right thing to do is to be smart enough to vote for the lesser evil, and then fight against societal slippage. Your responsibility is to believe in something, and take action.
Until the “Invisible Government” Teddy Roosevelt and other former U.S. Presidents have spoken about in the last century are removed, and until you have a better way forward, this is the most moral play in the playbook. Otherwise, you are just conning yourself, and leaving the future open to total destruction through your apathy. If you didn’t care enough about the future to vote, then you can’t care enough to complain. Either care, or don’t. You can’t have it both ways. You may not want to vote for either, but if you don’t, decisions this important will be made for you. Hopefully, you are smart enough to know that. There will be a president. So choose that president on Tuesday.
Now onto the “State of the Union.”
The United States is the most powerful empire in the history of the world. It’s military can destroy the entire planet within seconds, and its breadth spreads to bases in virtually every country on Earth. Its culture, technological sophistication and economic strength influence the rest of the world’s desires, icons, and capabilities.
The online and mainstream media influence of American-based companies has literally changed the world since the end of the Second World War. Yes, what happens in this election will have huge ramifications as to what happens next, both online and offline.
Let’s start with war, World War III that is. It has been the United State’s mainstream media and political establishment’s desire over the last year to blame Russia for everything and anything, to justify a future war of attrition. From economic sanctions against Russia over the last three years, to NATO moving right to Russia’s border in Ukraine, trying to make Russia flinch, the Military Industrial Complex is primed for WW3. Russia has said they have no interest in war, and they are actively fighting terrorism in Syria and Aleppo, which has only served to antagonize the warmongers even more.
Hillary Clinton has accused Russia of hacking the DNC and anything else she can think of to explain her criminality being exposed more than ever before. If she loses this election, she wants to have the outlet of blaming Russia’s hackers, not justice or the will of the people, that defeated her. She has provided no proof of this, and neither has any part of the mainstream media or the political establishment, but so what? She has even gone so far as to directly threaten Russia with war for this alleged, and most likely “non-existent” cyber attack. This video, from September, covers all of the above:
So she is openly courting WW3 with Russia for something she cannot prove happened, and probably never did happen. Donald Trump, on the other hand, has openly stated, in the recent televised debates, that he can work with Putin and build some form of cordial relationship, thus avoiding WW3.
He is a master negotiator, and sees no reason to start a war, and has seen no proof of Russian wrongdoing. This logical approach has only forced Clinton and her establishment minions to accuse Donald of being some sort of Russian spy, in an effort to discredit him. Draw your own conclusions, ladies and gentlemen.
So if you wouldn’t mind WW3 jumping off in the next year or two, please, vote for Hillary Clinton, or abstain from voting.
If you do not vote, and you allow her to get in, you lose your right to complain about nuclear winter.
Breaking news on the depths of Clinton’s criminality out of New York
Thursday it was revealed, on alternative media, not the bought-and-paid-for mainstream media, that Hillary Clinton, and her accomplice Huma Abedin, have skeletons in their closet that should put her into a prison cell for the rest of her natural years.
The New York Police Department (NYPD) has revealed that a laptop owned and shared by Anthony Weiner and Huma Abedin was discovered with at least 500,000 emails, some say 650,000 emails, that were sent to, from, or about Hillary Clinton. This was all during the time when she was Secretary of State, and these emails are what drove the FBI to re-open their criminal investigation against her.
The content, from sources within the NYPD, spans a wide swath of felonious criminal behavior. Her pay-to-play corruption as Secretary of State, for example, her getting a $1 million “gift” from Saudi Arabia through her false front Clinton Foundation. This corruption example actually comes from the Podesta Emails revealed by Wikileaks, which accepts Bitcoin donations.
The NYPD cites far worse than just garden-variety corruption and a consistent lack of ethics suitable for public office. Let’s start at the top, with emails speaking about:
Money laundering
Child exploitation
Sex crimes with minors (children)
Perjury
Pay to play through Clinton Foundation
Obstruction of justice
Other felony crimes
Let’s look at one aspect of her not-so-well-known criminal behavior, child molestation. An NYPD Chief associated with the email recovery stated on Thursday:
“What’s in the emails is staggering and, as a father, it turned my stomach. There is not going to be any Houdini-like escape from what we found. We have copies of everything. We will ship them to Wikileaks or I will personally hold my own press conference, if it comes to that. People are going to prison.”
He could not say Clinton going to prison, but you should be able to read in between these lines, right? He’s not exactly hiding the truth from you, like Clinton has done for decades.
The new emails contain travel documents and itineraries indicating Hillary Clinton, former President Bill Clinton, Weiner and multiple members of Congress and other government officials, accompanied by convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein billionaire, on his Boeing 727 on multiple occasions to his private island in the U.S Virgin Islands, sources said. Epstein’s island has also been dubbed Orgy Island or Sex Slave Island where Epstein allegedly pimps out underage girls and boys to international dignitaries.
Both NYPD and FBI sources confirm based on the new emails they now believe Hillary Clinton traveled as Epstein’s guest on at least six occasions, probably more when all the evidence is combed, sources said.
Bill Clinton, it has been confirmed in media reports spanning recent years, that he too traveled with Epstein over 20 times to the island.
Clinton and Abedin both also sent copious amounts of classified and “top secret” emails from personal email accounts, a direct legal violation of her position as Secretary of State, and a felony.
I could go on, but you get the point. Clinton’s skeletons have skeletons. Her closet is darker than you can imagine, and is not a walk-in closet. This closet has an island on it!
What about the Internet and Bitcoin?
Ok, so she’s corrupt, is probably complicit, if not actively involved in crimes against children, and she’ll probably go to prison after the election, win or lose. So what does that have to do with us? We care about the future of the Internet and trading Bitcoin, not if America is screwed indefinitely. Well, let us look at the progression of events when it comes to globalists like President Obama and Hillary Clinton and the state of the Internet now and in the future.
To America’s credit, the Internet, in its present and public form, would not be here today without the development and investment of the United States, as well as Great Britain. The Internet has changed the world forever, with the exposure of the truth about Hillary Clinton, as just another example of how important it has become as a truth serum to the world.
Over the last 27 years, the Internet has been safeguarded, in effect, by ICANN and its progenitors, and has allowed it to operate in a largely decentralized, free, and unregulated fashion. Generally, the regulations are limited to those of your local jurisdiction and how oppressive, or liberal, they choose to be with it. Those days have come to an end under President Barack Obama, as the United Nations took control of the Internet earlier this year.
On the surface, the U.N.’s take over seems to be a non-issue. Now, every nation within their membership can have some influence on the future of the Internet, in theory. Is this a good thing, or a “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it?” China has been a known enemy of a free internet, and is gaining major economic and political influence worldwide. Going forward, this may be following steps along the path of centralization, regulation, and censorship of the Internet. Which President do you think would endorse that Internet future?
Hillary Clinton’s corruption, lies, and criminal behavior have been brought to light via the Internet for years. Meanwhile, Donald Trump has used the Internet to gain Twitter followers, spread his message, and attract tens of thousands to his rallies around the United States. It has also made it much more likely for him to reach his final goal as POTUS, with the damage the information it provides has done to Hillary Clinton’s image through Wikileaks, the NYPD, etc.
Do you think Donald Trump will allow the censorship of the Internet when it clearly is helping him become the leader of the free world?
Do you think Hillary Clinton will use the position of President of the United States to accelerate the shutdown of the Internet? She certainly should have an axe to grind against it, as it has shown you the emperor has no clothes. Let’s say she actually wins the election, but is indicted for her crimes and removed from office in first quarter of 2017. Do you think “yes-man” Tim Kaine is going to stand up for the Internet, if he will not stand up against Clinton’s unethical and criminal past? Has he shown any ability to lead a nation, or protect the global Internet? He can’t even get more than 30 people to meet him at a Florida gymnasium to have a rally!
To be fair, Mike Pence is no better, except at the people showing up to his meetings part. He does not agree with Trump on key issues. He was in favour of the Iraq war, while Trump was alone against it. He was also a known proponent of the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP,) which Trump also opposes. Anyone who supports the TPP, firstly, have not studied it, with members of Congress and State not being allowed to download or copy it for review. Secondly, has been conned into thinking it is a “fair trade deal” for the United States when it is clearly not, given the fact that it is being hidden from the public and all interested parties. Or thirdly, you know what’s up and are complicit in its true mission, to undermine the U.S.’s sovereignty, over-regulate things like the Internet, and remove regulations that keep fascist corporations in check, like food labeling or the profits reaped from environmentally destructive activities for profit.
If you have ever watched a “Blade” movie, starring Wesley Snipes, Mike Pence strikes me as a “familiar.” A “familiar” is not a vampire - like some see Hillary Clinton as - but as a wannabe vampire. Given his proven interests in starting unjust wars and approving sweeping regulations he probably doesn’t understand, he would be easily “turned” away from Trump’s ideals to other interests, if something were to befall Donald while in office.
I do not trust Pence and he is a poor choice for vice president by Trump. He may have felt that he needed someone that was less hardcore populist, and more establishment-friendly, as a running mate, but he could have done much better. I hope this never becomes a factor in the future, or else he may become the next Lyndon B. Johnson. Let America not repeat that history, from that afternoon in Dallas, forward throughout the war-torn 1960’s. Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it.
My point is the Internet is on the shakiest ground it has ever been. “Globalism” is code for taking sovereignty and freedom away from nations - see the “Muslim Migration” in the E.U. as Exhibit A. These things are not happenstance. Nothing on this scale, the changing hands of the Internet, the Muslim Migration, the brinksmanship in the Ukraine and the South China Sea, and the hidden agenda of the TTP and the TTIP. This is all by design for a future globalist takeover, leading to global governance and a global currency.
If the Internet’s future is in play, so is Bitcoin’s, which is 99 percent Internet-based - save for paper wallets. Trump has fought against the TPP since day one, and the Internet’s ultimate control is definitely one of the main entrees on the menu of this regulatory truck stop diner. If the TPP gets rammed through, in one form or another, the Internet as you know it, and Bitcoin, is over.
Oh, did I mention that Hillary Clinton has approved and promoted the Trans Pacific Partnership as “the gold standard” of trade deals at least 45 times over the last two years?
If Clinton gets into office for four years, she will find a way to slip TPP through eventually, either by changing its name, or waiting until Washington is on “holiday recess” - see Federal Reserve Act of 1913 - or by “executive order."
I haven’t even delved into the whole election fraud issue! The illegals being shuttled into this country to vote with no ID required (I wonder why? Probably to vote for Trump, right?) and even the deceased, or the “undead,” being recruited to vote for Clinton over, and over again. Do you think someone who is getting 500-1000 people to her events is really going to beat someone who regularly gets 10-15 times that amount to hear him speak in a popular election vote? In early voting already, people are reporting that the machines are not registering votes properly, and paper ballots are not being made available when they are requested.
This is unethical and a violation of voting rules and regulations. Trump has said, for months, that the entire system, from the mainstream media’s election coverage to the voting mechanisms, are rigged, and he might be right. If so, what can we do about it?
There are examples on major national news sites that the totals for the election have already been entered, like you would an excel spreadsheet, and that Hillary is going to win by a landslide, at least in the Electoral College. Some say that if Trump does win the popular vote by 5-10 percent, the results can be altered to prevent him from winning fair and square, and Clinton will be anointed president, surreptitiously. It should be clear that Clinton really won’t get more voters on her side than Trump, or else poll samples would be leaning more towards Democrats than Republicans. The mainstream media has gone all-in for Hillary Clinton, and have lost all credibility, win or lose. They know what I know.
I am not in the U.S. at this time, but I spent $45 to send in my official mail-in ballot for Donald J. Trump. I downloaded, emailed, called the County Clerk, three times, bought envelopes, and tracked my vote for the best possible future for a country I don’t even live in! I hope you do the same, as you would only have to do 1/10 of what I did, and you could protect your nation’s future, free of charge. You can’t sit on the sidelines. Not this time. America’s, and the World’s, future depends on what happens on Tuesday.
I wish I could do more, and maybe this article changes the mind of one person on Tuesday, or gets one Hillary Clinton supporter to stay home. I am doing this out of love for my homeland. ALL of my family resides in the U.S. of A. and I would like to be able to return there freely, and not enter a full-on police state when I do. Things have gotten bad enough, but they can get worse. A lot worse.
So don’t be so damn tribal! Don’t worry about Democrat or Republican. Both parties are as a crooked as a $3 bill, and you know it. Forget about that hustle and be a critical thinker. Who wants America to be great again? Don’t be a sheep. Be a wolf, hunting for the best choice. Break through your programming. You can do it. I believe in you!
Even if you don’t care about the election, but you are an American that cares about the Internet and Bitcoin, it’s time to get on “The Trump Train.” Bobby D., (‘Are you talkin’ to me?’), yeah, I’m talkin’ to you, too!
This election is for the future of the free world! EVERYTHING hangs in the balance. The video below extolls the next step in this stairway to America’s undoing. One candidate is running towards this future, while one fights the establishment against it. Which side are you on?
One person not having the guts to make a decision is another brick in the wall against democracy and freedom. A vote not cast for good is a blind march towards a future of evil. Stand up for what’s right on Tuesday, Nov. 8. What you do on Tuesday matters, much more than you may even realize. Vote like your life depends on it, because it just might.
Perhaps Ernest Hemingway said it best, referencing John Donne, from his classic novel:
“And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls. It tolls for thee.”
(The political opinions and views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of CoinTelegraph and its management. These are solely the thoughts of a Bitcoin man on a mission. Viewer discretion is advised.)
Hillary Clinton
Internet
Bitcoin
Freedom
Politics
USA
Comments
Hottest Bitcoin News Daily
For updates and exclusive offers, enter your e-mail below.