http://www.oneangrygamer.net/2016/10/weekly-recap-oct-1st-pepe-takes-bitcoin-by-storm-steam-getting-a-facelift/13083/
Weekly Recap Oct 1st: Pepe Takes Bitcoin By Storm, Steam Getting A Facelift | One Angry Gamer
NEWS
PC
XBOX
PLAYSTATION
NINTENDO
MOBILE
MEDIA
GUIDES
FEATURES
WEEKLY RECAP OCT 1ST: PEPE TAKES BITCOIN BY STORM, STEAM GETTING A FACELIFT
Posted on October 1, 2016, 9:00 am By Billy D
The first day of October and the last week of September collides in this edition of the Weekly Recap, which is probably one of the few editions that seems straight out of bizarro world. Pepe the Frog has joined the Anti-Defamation League as a symbol of hate, thus making his value and worth on Bitcoin indexes skyrocket. Valve is giving Steam a facelift, and Kotaku gets called out by Randy Pitchford for a “reckless” article. It’s like a a viper getting mocked by a weasel. These stories and so much more in this October 1st, 2016 edition of the Weekly Recap.

Guardian Refuses To Respond To Coverage Of Crash Override Network
The Crash Override Network leaks were met with a systematic case of silence from most major outlets who covered the organization a year prior, hyping up its relevance. The Guardian was one of those outlets, and they’ve continued to stay silent on the matter. Some YouTubers are still talking about the links, like the duo in the podcast above at the 44 minute mark. Google Play’s developers opted to ban the game #BlackLivesMatter from the store on the grounds of hate speech. A new motorcycle game similar to Road Rash called Road Rage is due for release this November for home consoles and PC. And a JRPG called Legrand Legacy is on its way, with the first gameplay trailer being released for the game.
 
Valve Altering Steam Front Page
The front page for Steam is going to undergo a facelift soon. According to some documents applied to the Steamworks private developer group, Valve will give gamers more of what they want and showcase to them the kind of games they like to buy. A new JRPG is on the way called Legrand Legacy. Details on the new Gear system in Injustice 2 were detailed, giving gamers a look at how to customize their characters and how the system is similar to an RPG loot and grind game. And the rock and roll, cooperative, hack-and-slash heavy metal game, Super Dungeon Bros, is set to release on home consoles and PC on November 1st.
 
Haydee Surprises On Steam With Busty Cyborg Ladies
One of the games that came completely out of the nowhere was the competently made but ecchi-themed 3D platformer, Haydee. The game has been selling quite well and features a busty, 3D cyborg protagonist who has been tearing it up on the Steam charts. If you’ve been interested in checking out the game Dragon Quest Builders, a new playable demo is available for the PS4 and PS Vita. Call of Duty: World at War has been made available as a backwards compatible title for the Xbox One. And the Warhammer: End Times – Vermintide cooperative shooter is scheduled to release the first week of October for the Xbox One and the PS4.

Pepe The Frog Is Now Officially A Hate Symbol
The Anti-Defamation League have officially labeled the cartoon frog, Pepe, a symbol of hate. This has spawned from all the media attention Pepe has received where a bunch of reports have been going around that Pepe is a white nationalist symbol. Well, now he’s officially as bad as a Swastika. A nude mod for Mai’s DLC in Dead or Alive 5 has surfaced. After years of struggling and competing in Japan, the PS4 finally defeated the Wii U in total install base sales, but only barely. The sexy and risque fondling academy game, Gal*Gun has made its way to Steam and it’s uncensored… you all know what that means, right? And some new details have emerged for the upcoming SD Gundam G Generation Genesis, which is likely going to be a real highlight for anyone who is really into mecha and Gundam games.
 
Rare Pepes Being Sold On Bitcoin Index
Your memes? They’re worth something. The addition of Pepe to the Anti-Defamation League’s list has spawned lots of listings on the Bitcoin index where people are actually selling rare Pepes. Shortly after becoming a hot property on Steam, a new nude mod for Haydee was released, and the crazy part about it is that it was already in the game! Cyberpunk 2077 could end up featuring seamless multiplayer, according to grant requests by CD Projekt Red. And more corruption news has surfaced, as Gamespot has multiple undisclosed affiliate links spread throughout their network without even mentioning that they’re part of Amazon’s affiliate program.

70% Of Americans Think The Media Is Ruining The Nation
It’s no longer guesswork or requiring suspicion to know that well over a majority of Americans feel as if mainstream news media are ruining the country and are having a negative effect on our society. More specifically, Pew Research has conducted a poll where they found out that 70% of Americans feel as if the media is harmful to the nation. Focus Home interactive and Giants are going with something new with Farming Simulator 2017, introducing woodcutting and other features into the game. Randy Pitchford called Kotaku’s reporting on a free-to-play version of Battleborn “reckless” and “false”. It turns out that the Xbox One S is really selling quite well over in the United Kingdom, out-selling the PS4 Slim by a margin of 361%. And it doesn’t appear as if we’re going to be getting Assassin’s Creed and Far Cry games in 2017, according to Ubisoft.
Spread The Anger
Share on Tumblr
in
Share
1
More
Related
Weekly Recap Oct 29th: No More Early Review Copies From Bethesda
In "Weekly Recap"
Weekly Recap Sept 17th: CON Leaks Result In Wikipedia Censorship, Pepe Storms Elections
In "Weekly Recap"
Weekly Recap Aug 27th: Crash Override Network Leaks Reveal Operation Of Abuse
In "Weekly Recap"
About Billy D
Billy has been rustling Jimmies for years covering video games, technology and digital trends within the electronics entertainment space. The GJP cried and their tears became his milkshake. Need to get in touch? Try the Contact Page.
0 Angry Comments Categories: Weekly Recap Tags: Weekly Recap
← Wasteland 3 Announced For PS4, Xbox One, PC; Features Multiplayer Co-op
Check Out Over 20 Minutes Of Gravity Rush 2 Gameplay In New Video →
TOP POSTS & PAGES
Warframe: Here's How To Get Valkyr Prime And Her Relics
Monica Petersen Death Raises Questions About Clinton Foundation Sex Trafficking
Dishonored 2 Endings Explained
King's Quest Chapter 5: The Good Knight Walkthrough
Dishonored 2 Complete Gameplay Walkthrough
Batman: The Telltale Series Episode 4 Walkthrough

(ADS)

COLLECTIBLE GEAR (ADS)

RECENT POSTS
Alien: Covenant Poster Arrives With May 19th, 2017 Release Date
Shantae: Half-Genie Hero Goes Gold For Consoles And PC
ICEY Lands On Steam With Overwhelmingly Positive Reviews
Scrap Mechanic To Gain Survival Mode And Particle Update
Total War: Warhammer To Gain Wood Elf Expansion On December 8th

ANGRY COMMENTS
Billy on Monica Petersen Death Raises Questions About Clinton Foundation Sex Trafficking
Billy on Nitroplus Blasterz: Heroines Infinite Duel Releases On Steam December 8th
Chikaze on Transport Fever Walkthrough Guide
Grey on Nitroplus Blasterz: Heroines Infinite Duel Releases On Steam December 8th
Charlie on Monica Petersen Death Raises Questions About Clinton Foundation Sex Trafficking
Billy on PizzaGate Sub-Reddit Banned By Admins For Witch Hunting

SITE POLICIES
Advertiser Policy
Ethics Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
SITE INFO
About Page
Staff Page
Contact Info
RSS Feed
© 2016 One Angry Gamer | Delivering Gaming News Without Remorse
TOP