http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/08/government-of-poland-debates-on-bitcoin-regulations-with-the-community/
Government of Poland Debates on Bitcoin Regulations with the Community - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
06:49 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Government of Poland Debates on Bitcoin Regulations with the Community
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
139



The legislators from the parliament of Poland interacted with Bitcoin community as part of a debate organized by the Polish Bitcoin Society. Read more...
The government in Poland recently had a debate in the Polish Parliament regarding Bitcoin regulations. The event organized by the Polish Bitcoin Society along with Miroslaw Suchon saw lectures by specialists from the Bitcoin and blockchain industry.
Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin occupy a unique position in the monetary system. They are decentralized, supported by a worldwide community instead of central banks and governments. Without control over the cryptocurrencies, the governments have a conflicting opinion about Bitcoin regulations. On one end, accepting cryptocurrencies means giving up complete authority over the monetary policies and at the same time strict regulations may hinder the development of blockchain technology which has a potential to revolutionize the whole payments industry.
The lively debate had industry specialists and politicians interact with each other regarding various aspects of cryptocurrency technology and its pros and cons. The speakers at the event included academics like Dr (hab). Konrad Zacharzewski, Dr. Krzysztof Piech, and Prof. Marian Sredrny; legal experts like Jacek Czarnecki and Dr. Krzysztof Korus; industry representatives from BitBay, IBM and Polish Bitcoin Society members.
According to reports, the Government in Poland is enthusiastic about cryptocurrencies and more such debates are expected to follow this first ever government – cryptocurrency interaction. As expected, one of the main topics of the debate revolved around the legislative issues surrounding the creation and use of cryptocurrencies. It was accepted that regulations are necessary to protect the investors’ interest without hindering the freedom of the community or hampering the progress of technology development.
BitBay is the leading cryptocurrency platform in Poland, its CEO Sylwester Suszek’s attendance in the event allowed them to explain the various challenges faced by cryptocurrency companies to the country’s lawmakers. Suszek, during the presentation, is said to have stressed upon the need for co-operation between the companies and government institutions to create the much-needed solutions for the public using cryptocurrencies.
All the participants have expressed their satisfaction with the outcome of the event. The Ministry of Administration and Digitization is said to be working closely with specialists in the blockchain and cryptocurrency domain to develop digital safety and e-administration solutions in the country. Given the government’s stance, the cryptocurrency community may soon expect interesting developments in the country’s Bitcoin and blockchain scene.
Ref: Ministry of Digitization |Image: NewsBTC
139
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.