http://themerkle.com/venezuela-set-for-mass-bitcoin-adoption-as-china-cuts-off-cash-flow/
Venezuela Set For Mass Bitcoin Adoption As China Cuts Off Cash Flow – The Merkle
About
Contact
Jobs
Privacy Policy
Team
Login Register 0 items - $0.00
NEWS
REVIEWS
EDUCATION
HomeNewsCryptocurrencyVenezuela Set For Mass Bitcoin Adoption As China Cuts Off Cash Flow
Venezuela Set For Mass Bitcoin Adoption As China Cuts Off Cash Flow
JP Buntinx October 1, 2016 Cryptocurrency, Finance, News
The financial situation in Venezuela is very dire right now. The problems are only compounded now that China is cutting off cash transfers to the country. China has poured billions into Venezuela in recent decades, but there will be no new loans issued to the Latin American country–a positive trend for Bitcoin, which has already gained significant traction in the region.
CHINA CUTS OFF THE FAUCET TO VENEZUELA
It was only a matter of time before the cash flow from China to Venezuela would dry up. Supporting a country in dire financial straits is very noble, but unless money is returned, it is not sustainable in the long run. Unfortunately for Venezuela, this news could not come at a worse time, as things have gone from worse to near-nightmarish levels for residents and enterprises.
It has to be said that China has been doing everything they can to help out Venezuela during these difficult times. Chinese state banks have loaned US$60bn to the struggling country, and there is an outstanding debt of roughly US$20bn that still needs to be settled. Unfortunately, that will not happen anytime soon, as the country has little to no money to spare right now.
In most cases these back payments are completed in the form of oil export. While Venezuela sits on the world’s largest oil reserves, it’s seeing a new low in production since 2003. With unpaid bills from the government to service providers, the appeal to deal with the Latin American country has all but vanished.
Things are looking very dire for Venezuela right now, as they can’t import or exports goods in a decent capacity right now. There is not enough revenue to buy food or medicine, while other countries are not willing to import Venezuelan goods. Something will have to change before the country falls off the edge of the proverbial cliff.
It will hardly come as a surprise to hear that a lot of residents are flocking to Bitcoin in recent months. Those who still have money convert what they can into Bitcoin as a way to hedge against the devaluing local currency. Bitcoin also allows for some fresh capital inflow, as freelancers and remote workers try to secure deals with international clients willing to pay with cryptocurrency.
Image credit 1
If you liked this article, follow us on Twitter @themerklenews and make sure to subscribe to our newsletter to receive the latest bitcoin and altcoin price analysis and the latest cryptocurrency news.
Related Posts
Bitcoin Is Of High Value To Live-Streaming Apps Like MeVee
Collect Bitcoins Faucet Forces Users To Download Executable Software
Reselling Bitcoin on LocalBitcoins Is A Lucrative Business
About The Author
Jdebunt
JP Buntinx is a 30-year old FinTech and Bitcoin enthusiast living in Belgium. His passion for finance and technology made him one of the world's leading freelance Bitcoin writers, and he is working to achieve the same level of respect in the FinTech sector.
SEARCH SITE
Search
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
Samsung Pay Incentivizes Users With New Rewards …
November 15, 2016
Visa Wants To Replace Passwords With Multiple …
November 15, 2016
OCBC Bank Pilots Blockchain-based Funds Transfer Between …
November 15, 2016
SUBSCRIBE
Subscribe to our mailing list
RECENT POSTS
Incent To Offer Its ICO Technology To Other Organizations Focusing On Loyalty Rewards November 25, 2016
Developing Nations Show A Great Appetite For Payment Card Acceptance November 25, 2016
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
CONNECT WITH US
The Merkle Copyright © 2016.