http://www.coindesk.com/switzerland-bitcoin-regulation/
Swiss Lawmakers Take Steps Toward Bitcoin Regulation - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$731
$735
$738
USD -0.06%
$737.81
CNY 0.2%
¥5,195.20
EUR €696.42
GBP £591.09
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
NEWS  •  REGULATION
Swiss Lawmakers Take Steps Toward Bitcoin Regulation
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 2, 2016 at 16:37 GMT
NEWS
432
90
17
Its national railway service may have already jumped on the bitcoin bandwagon, but Switzerland is taking a slower approach as it looks to regulate digital currencies and fintech.
Days after Swiss rail operator SBB made international headlines for the decision to sell bitcoin through its network of ticket kiosks, the country’s Federal Department of Finance (FDF) outlined its plans to regulate fintech with an eye to introduce legislation sometime next year.
Key elements include plans for a new kind of license geared specifically toward fintech companies and a so-called regulatory “sandbox” for experimental firms. Under the proposed regime, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority would become the primary regulator of fintech firms working in Switzerland.
Questions remain, however. In a statement, the FDF said that it will pursue additional research into bitcoin and other digital currencies, as well as broader applications of blockchain.
The agency said today:
“...the FDF should conduct additional clarifications in cooperation with the interested authorities on reducing further barriers to market entry for fintech firms, also those outside financial market law (e.g. legal treatment of virtual currencies and assets).”
During a press conference, Swiss Finance Minister Ueli Maurer argued that the proposed fintech legislation would help draw in more companies – though the country’s accommodative stance has already led some blockchain startups to make their home in Switzerland.
"We assume that with the steps we have prepared and the commitment we have to the overall financial services industry we can provide a solution that puts us among the top (countries) in the world that regulate this," he said, according to Reuters.
Image via Shutterstock
legislationRegulationSwitzerland
432
90
17
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Canadian Regulator Seeks Blockchain Experts for Fintech...
NEXT ARTICLE
ULC Close to Finalizing Model Digital Currency Legislation
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
OPINION
Nov 20, 2016 at 14:53 | Josh Stark
Making Sense of Blockchain Governance Applications
Ledger Labs' Josh Stark seeks to provide a high-level framework for understanding the potential of nascent blockchain governance applications.
NEWS
Nov 18, 2016 at 18:55 | Stan Higgins
The IRS is Seeking Data on Coinbase's Bitcoin Customers
The IRS is seeking user records from Coinbase as part of a taxpayer investigation.
FEATURE
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:00 | Michael del Castillo
The Swiss Government is Paving the Way for Crypto Banks
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
NEWS
Nov 17, 2016 at 16:01 | Stan Higgins
Dubai Legislators to Discuss Bitcoin Regulation
Dubai’s government is laying the groundwork for developing legislation around bitcoin and digital currencies.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 91 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.