http://www.coindesk.com/irs-seeking-data-coinbases-bitcoin-customers/
The IRS is Seeking Data on Coinbase's Bitcoin Customers - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$731
$735
$739
USD -0.14%
$737.24
CNY 0.19%
¥5,194.36
EUR €695.88
GBP £590.64
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
COINBASE  •  COMPANIES  •  NEWS
The IRS is Seeking Data on Coinbase's Bitcoin Customers
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 18, 2016 at 18:55 GMT
NEWS
230
113
2
The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is seeking access to user records held by bitcoin and ether exchange Coinbase as part of a taxpayer investigation.
The US tax agency filed a petition in the District Court for the Northern District of California on 17th November asking for permission to serve a summons to Coinbase over user information, court records show. The targets of the investigation are not directly named, but are rather referred to as a group of "John Does" who are believed to have avoided or failed to have paid taxes on transactions involving digital currencies.
Now, it seems, the IRS is looking to more aggressively police digital currency users in the US, and the investigation itself focuses on taxpayers who transacted between 2013 and 2015.
Attorneys for the US government wrote:
"The 'John Doe' summons relates to the investigation of an ascertainable group or class of persons, that is, United States taxpayers who, at any time during the years ended December 31, 2013, through December 31, 2015, conducted transactions in a convertible virtual currency as defined in IRS Notice 2014-21."
The court action comes more than two years after the IRS declared that it would regulate bitcoin and other digital currencies as kinds of property subject to tax and reporting requirements.
Yet, in the years that followed, the IRS has reportedly failed to create a comprehensive strategy around the tech, according to a recent inspector general report. That report blasted the IRS, arguing that the agency's shortcomings have heightened tax avoidance risks.
In the meantime, tax professionals in the US have attacked the agency’s approach as too vague and in need of improvement.
As of press time, Coinbase has said that it is weighing the filing and that it is seeking to respond in a way that maintains user privacy.
"We take user privacy very seriously and will work to protect the privacy of our users in broad information requests," Coinbase representative David Farmer said. "We are taking a very careful look at this petition and the scope of the government's authority as it relates to this request."
A representative for the IRS did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Investigations detailed
While the petition does not point any fingers at potential tax cheats, some of the filings from the IRS offer examples of the kinds of investigations the agency has conducted to date.
A statement from IRS agent David Utzke outlines three instances in which the target of an investigation had ultimately confessed to using digital currency in a bid to avoid scrutiny. He wrote about one individual who, after using offshore accounts for years to maintain their funds, started using the tech to move their money.
Utzke wrote:
"...instead of repatriating his income from an ATM in the form of cash, Taxpayer 1 diverted his income to a bank which works with a virtual currency exchanger to convert his income to virtual currency. Once converted to virtual currency, Taxpayer 1's income was placed into a virtual currency account until Taxpayer 1 used it to purchase goods and services. Taxpayer 1 failed to report this income to the IRS."
Two other cases involved "corporate entities with annual revenues of several million dollars", each of which involved the use of a Coinbase account.
"Both taxpayers admitted disguising the amount they spent purchasing the bitcoins as deductions for technology expenses on their tax returns," Utzke wrote. "The bitcoin transactions were discovered after repeated requests for the original documentation necessary to substantiate the technology expense items claimed on the tax returns."
Disclosure: CoinDesk is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which has an ownership stake in Coinbase.
Image Credit: Rob Crandall / Shutterstock.com 
CoinbaseIdentityIRSLawRegulation
230
113
2
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Japan's Central Bank Believes Blockchain Could Create Tax...
NEXT ARTICLE
Bitcoin Tipping Service ChangeTip to Shut Down
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
NEWS
Nov 22, 2016 at 20:02 | Stan Higgins
IRS Effort to Access Coinbase Records Could Take Months
Digital currency exchange Coinbase says it’s planning to fight a government effort to acquire information about its users.
OPINION
Nov 20, 2016 at 15:05 | Brian Zimbler, Dmitry Dmitriev and Andrey Ignatenko
Blockchain Interest is Rising in Russia (Despite Legal Concerns)
Moscow-based legal experts examine the thaw in attitudes towards blockchain and bitcoin in Russia.
OPINION
Nov 20, 2016 at 14:53 | Josh Stark
Making Sense of Blockchain Governance Applications
Ledger Labs' Josh Stark seeks to provide a high-level framework for understanding the potential of nascent blockchain governance applications.
FEATURE
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:00 | Michael del Castillo
The Swiss Government is Paving the Way for Crypto Banks
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.