http://www.marketwatch.com/story/bitcoin-price-hits-highest-level-since-august-2016-10-14
Bitcoin price hits highest level since August - MarketWatch
DOW
19,152 +68.96 +0.36%
Home
News Viewer
Markets
Investing
Trading Deck
Personal Finance
Retirement
Economy
Real Estate
Home Markets In One Chart
GET EMAIL ALERTS
Bitcoin price hits highest level since August
By Joseph Adinolfi
Published: Oct 14, 2016 12:50 p.m. ET
46
Move suggests investors are moving past a series of high-profile hacks that occurred over the summer
Bitcoin has finally shaken off its summer slump.
The price of a single coin US:BTCUSD  has climbed above $630 for the first time since August, when reports that hackers had stolen 120,000 bitcoins, then worth more than $65 million, from one of the world’s largest bitcoin exchanges. The theft sent the price of the popular cryptocurrency spiraling lower. At its lowest point, bitcoin had lost $100 in value, though it quickly reversed much of this drop.
Read: Bitcoin price plummets after exchange loses $65 million to hackers
–– ADVERTISEMENT ––
The hack at Hong Kong-based Bitfinex, which remains one of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges, followed another high-profile incident in June, when a hacker stole more than 3.5 million ether tokens—worth about $50 million at the time—from an entity known as the DAO. To recover the stolen coins, Ethereum’s developers engineered a controversial software update that recovered the stolen coins by essentially unwinding part of the Ethereum blockchain. Initially created as a vehicle to help crowdfund promising startups building on the Ethereum blockchain, the DAO was dissolved after the hack.
Read: Digital currency Ethereum nose-dives after $50 million hack
Bitfinex issued a newly created coin called the BFX token as a sort of a placeholder for customers who lost coins during the hack. On Thursday, the exchange announced that it would allow customers to exchange their BFX tokens for a stake in the company, with each coin valued at $1.
Security remains a concern for many investors, as exchanges have proven consistently that they are vulnerable to hackers.
Of course the most prominent example of big security issues in digital currencies occurred in February 2014, when Mt. Gox, once the dominant bitcoin exchange, collapsed after hackers stole millions of customer bitcoins. The news effectively ended the bitcoin speculative bubble of 2013, as the price of a single coin slumped to less than $200, after peaking near $1,200 in November 2013.
More from MarketWatch
Opinion Journal: ‘Fake News’ and Fake Scandals
Donald Trump and Mitt Romney Make Move to Reconcile
The Task of Securing President-Elect Donald Trump
MOST POPULAR
10 of the prettiest towns in the U.S. where you can retire reasonably well
Apple nabs obscene share of smartphone profit thanks to Samsung’s Note 7 debacle
As Card Rewards Mount, Visa and Mastercard Win Big
Tesla’s Model X is ‘fast and flawed,’ Consumer Reports says
U.S. stocks hit new records and post third straight week of gains
MARKETWATCH
PARTNER CENTER
SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
RL360°
Top 10 reasons to invest in income
MarketViews
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
MarketViews
Weekly update on the financial markets
MarketViews
SPONSORED RESULTS
1. Dividend ETFs Monthly Payout
5. Best Certificate of Deposit Rates
2. Sears Free Shipping Code
6. Grocery Store Coupons
3. Preferred Stocks Listings
7. Reverse Mortgage Calculator
4. Best 15 Year Mortgage Rates
8. Retirement Planning Guide
46 comments
1 PERSON LISTENING
 + Follow
Share
Post Comment
NEWEST | OLDEST
Erich Lehr from Facebook
Oct 18, 2016
Here's a way to invest in bitcoin and educate others of it's value: http://coinomia.com/?id=Erich Lehr
FlagShare
LikeReply
Jay Greene from Facebook
Oct 17, 2016
FlagShare
LikeReply
Nicholas Jack from Facebook
Oct 16, 2016
Jonathan Chuafast o rebound
FlagShare
LikeReply
Show More Comments
Powered by Livefyre
LUXURY REAL ESTATE
Billionaire Ron Burkle is buyer behind Bob Hope’s iconic Palm Springs mansion
View More
DONALD TRUMP
Insight and analysis on a Donald Trump presidency
View More
REAL ESTATE NEWS
Melania Trump may be right: Moving in middle of school year could mess up kids
View More
INVESTING
Opinion: A 12-step plan to strengthen your portfolio after Trump's victory
View More
SPONSORED HEADLINES
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
RL360°
Top 10 reasons to invest in income
MarketViews
Weekly update on the financial markets
MarketViews
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
MarketViews
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
RL360°
MARKETWATCH
Site Index
Topics
Help
Feedback
Newsroom Roster
Media Archive
Premium Products
Mobile
COMPANY
Company Info
Code of Conduct
Corrections
Advertising Media Kit
Advertise Locally
Reprints & Licensing
Broker Center
Your Ad Choices
DOW JONES NETWORK
WSJ.com
Barron's Online
BigCharts
Virtual Stock Exchange
Financial News Online
WSJ.com Small Business
realtor.com
Mansion Global
BACK TO TOP
Copyright ©2016 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.
By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.