https://techcrunch.com/2016/10/06/trust-disrupted-bitcoin-the-blockchain-six-episode-series/
Watch the trailer for our new series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin & The Blockchain’ | TechCrunch
News
Video
Events
Crunchbase
SEARCH

10TH ANNUAL CRUNCHIES AWARDSThe Finalists Have Been Announced Get Your Tickets Today
Finance
Bitcoin
blockchain
Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin & the Blockchain
Watch the trailer for our new series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin & The Blockchain’
Posted Oct 6, 2016 by Rebecca Friedman (@rebeccapf12)

Next Story
What is bitcoin? What is the blockchain? How does it work? Who is behind it? Find the answer to all of these questions and more by tuning into the six-episode series Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin & the Blockchain.
The series features Nathaniel Popper, a New York Times reporter and the author of the book on which the series is based, along with various bitcoin developers, influencers and scholars tracing the history of bitcoin and analyzing its future.
The first episode examines the creation of bitcoin and the blockchain. Episode two looks at the global network of mines and miners that govern the bitcoin system. The third episode explores the controversy of how to deal with the flood of traffic to the network — whether it should be centralized through the blockchain or decentralized. Episode four details the rise of the digital currency and its increased acceptance into mainstream financial institutions. The fifth episode focuses on Ethereum, the public, decentralized bitcoin platform that could one day run the world as well as the effect of its recent hack. The final episode traces the battle lines between the Open Blockchain (Silicon Valley) and the Closed Blockchain (Wall Street) and how the blockchain is going to change the world.
This series is produced by TechCrunch and Stateless. The first two episodes air on 10/10 with the following episodes released daily that week. The series will be available in full on TechCrunch and on our YouTube channel. Check out the trailer below.
FEATURED IMAGE: RUSSELL WERGES

  by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
From the Web
What will cognitive computing change?
Financial Times for CapGemini
Tiny Device Allows You To Track Anything (it's Genius!)
TrackR Bravo
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Smart Device Trends
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Bitcoin
FOUNDED
2007
OVERVIEW
Bitcoin is a form of digital currency, created and held electronically. However, it is a currency not controlled by a central source. Bitcoins aren’t printed, like dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world, using software that solves mathematical problems. It is the first example of a growing category of money known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin …
LOCATION
San Jose, CA
CATEGORIES
Bitcoin, Mobile Payments, Financial Services, Payments
Full profile for Bitcoin
Uber
Blockchain
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
Latest Crunch Report
Facebook Builds a Censorship Tool | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes
Comment moderation powered by
UP NEXT
Capital One acquires online price tracker Paribus
Posted Oct 6, 2016
CrunchBoard
Job Listings
CRM Berater (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
C++ Developer - Qt Product Development (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
Full Stack Engineer at FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
UI Engineering @ FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
Senior Backend Engineer @ MeetMe at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA, United States)
More from CrunchBoard
ADVERTISEMENT
TechCrunch
News
Video
Events
Crunchbase
TechCrunch Store
About
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
Send Us A Tip
International
China
Europe
Japan
Follow TechCrunch
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Youtube
Pinterest
Tumblr
Instagram
StumbleUpon
Feed
TechCrunch Apps
iOS
Android
Windows 8
Subscribe to The Daily Crunch
Latest headlines delivered to you daily
Enter Email Address
SUBSCRIBE
© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by