http://www.reuters.com/article/uk-markets-bitcoin-china-idUSKCN12B2FC
Chinese demand drives bitcoin to 10-week high as yuan hits six-year low | Reuters
EDITION:
UNITED STATES
Business
Markets
World
Politics
Tech
Commentary
Breakingviews
Money
Life
FOREIGN EXCHANGE ANALYSIS | Tue Oct 11, 2016 | 2:57pm EDT
Chinese demand drives bitcoin to 10-week high as yuan hits six-year low
A bitcoin sign is held in Hong Kong February 28, 2014. REUTERS/Bobby Yip/File Photo
By Jemima Kelly | LONDON
The price of web-based digital currency bitcoin jumped to a 10-week high on Tuesday, as worries about a further weakening of the yuan drove increased demand from China.
The Chinese currency hit a six-year low of 6.72 yuan per dollar on Tuesday -- the first day of trading following a week-long holiday -- after the central bank set a weaker guidance rate, fuelling market expectations that it may allow further depreciation.
State-owned Chinese banks leapt to defend the 6.7 level when it was breached in mid-July but have not been seen buying yuan heavily so far this week, adding to questions over whether China was allowing the currency to resume its descent, after steadying it through much of the summer ahead of major political events.
PUBLICIDAD
inRead invented by Teads
Bitcoin is a web-based "cryptocurrency" that can move money across the globe quickly and anonymously with no need for a central authority. That makes it attractive to those wanting to get around capital controls, such as China's.
Around 95 percent of all bitcoin trading is done via Chinese exchanges, according to industry website Coindesk, so any increase in demand from the Asian superpower tends to have a particularly significant impact.
"The Chinese central bank's decision not to intervene in stabilising the yuan means traders are running scared. Bitcoin is a port in the storm," said Charles Hayter, founder of digital currency website Cryptocompare.
Bitcoin jumped more than 3 percent against a dollar that was stronger against most central bank currencies, to a high of $637.21 on the Bitstamp exchange, its strongest since late July.
Some bitcoin experts said the web-based currency had also been given a boost by what might be the end of a stalemate over how to increase the capacity of the so-called "blocks" in which bitcoin is processed. Dubbed the "bitcoin civil war", the issue caused one senior developer to quit earlier this year.
A "Scaling Bitcoin" summit was held in Milan last week to address the issue, which attendees and bitcoin watchers said had brought some progress on the issue. Daily transaction volumes have been growing rapidly, hitting a record high above 280,000 last week.
ALSO IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE ANALYSIS
Dollar weakens as U.S. bond yields slip from recent highs
'Mini-dollar' tag set to aid sterling in 2017
"There were several technological advancements demonstrated, some of which could be promising avenues to increase the number of transactions that the bitcoin network could process," said Colin Platt, co-founder of blockchain start-up DPactum, and formerly head of blockchain at BNP Paribas.
"These new advancements could once again position bitcoin to continue to innovate and sustain higher transaction rates which could foster wider adoption," he added.
(Reporting by Jemima Kelly; Graphic by Nigel Stephenson; Editing by Catherine Evans)
NEXT IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE ANALYSIS
Sterling heads for best run of gains vs euro since early 2015
LONDON Sterling slipped against the euro on Friday but was still on track for its longest run of weekly gains since early 2015, with investors switching their focus from the political risks facing Britain towards those facing the euro zone.
Sterling edges down after hitting two-month high on budget boost
LONDON Sterling edged down on Thursday after hitting a two-month high on a trade-weighted basis the previous day, after Britain's Autumn Statement on the budget was read as more growth-supportive and upbeat than some had expected.
MORE FROM REUTERS
Trump will get wake-up call when he takes office, Obama says
Ghost airplane attends banquet for new Airbus jet
Willing to oppose Trump, some Senate Republicans gain leverage
China goes global as Trump puts America first
Emirates Airline says some technical issues with Rolls-Royce A380 engines
SPONSORED CONTENT
FROM AROUND THE WEB
Promoted by Taboola
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Soldiers: Free Online Game
L'Oreal-Proactive On Income Protection For Their Employees
Financial Times
Watch: An Amazing 360 Experience Of Abu Dhabi's Sights And Sounds
CNN for Abu Dhabi Tourism
This game will keep you up all night!
Pirates: Free Online Game
Gana 2 entradas para el clásico. Todos los gastos pagos.
FC Barcelona
Las tres anécdotas de lotería más increíbles de todos los tiempos
theLotter.com
TRENDING STORIES
1
Blue-collar Democrats to party: It's still the economy, stupid
2
U.S. opens door to oil exports after year of pressure
3
Russian ruble resumes recovery as exporters seen selling dollars
4
Shares slip in low-volume trading; safe-havens rise
5
U.S. consumer confidence rises in December
FOCUS 360
Video: Heading to space
SPONSORED TOPICS
Follow Reuters:
Follow Us On Twitter
Follow Us On Facebook
Follow Us On RSS
Follow Us On Instagram
Follow Us On YouTube
Follow Us On LinkedIn
Subscribe: Feeds | Newsletters | Podcasts | Apps
Reuters News Agency | Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters is the news and media division of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
EIKON
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface
ELEKTRON
Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management
WORLD-CHECK
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks
WESTLAW
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology
ONESOURCE
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
CHECKPOINT
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2016 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
Site Feedback Corrections Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines AdChoices Terms of Use Privacy Policy