http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/04/bitcoin-unlimited-stolen-funds/
Bitcoin Unlimited May Have Received Stolen Funds as Donation - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
05:08 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Unlimited May Have Received Stolen Funds as Donation
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News
17



The donations received by Bitcoin Unlimited may have come from funds stolen from Kraken a few months ago. Read more..
Bitcoin Unlimited recently made news after it received an unusually large donation of around $500,000 in bitcoins. The donation amount is now mired in controversy after it was claimed to have come from a questionable source.
According to few reports, the donation received by the project were allegedly stolen from Kraken, a leading digital currency exchange. There were unconfirmed reports of Kraken suffering from a security breach that resulted in a theft. While the exact amount of Bitcoin stolen during the incident is not clear, few users tracking the stolen funds on the Bitcoin blockchain believe that it is the same stolen stash which has made its way to Bitcoin Unlimited’s wallets.
A portion of Bitcoin that was donated to Bitcoin Unlimited seems to have followed the same path through coin mixing services as rest of the stolen funds. A Bitcoin taint analysis conducted by one of the Redditor shows the whole transaction tree. The OP, without making any conclusions has put it out there for the community to come to their own conclusion.
Legend
Grey: Kraken address from which the bitcoins were stolen from
Orange: Address to which stolen bitcoins were allegedly sent to
Green: Address containing most of the stolen bitcoins
Blue: Addresses to which the bitcoins were sent for mixing
Yellow: Bitcoin Unlimited’s donation address
The influx of new funds into Bitcoin Unlimited seems to have already been put to good use. The platform has announced the availability of new research funding for new Bitcoin projects. According to the latest blog post by Peter Rizun, the major areas of interest for Bitcoin Unlimited includes
Research into longer-term scaling initiatives
Development of incremental scaling improvements
Empirical studies into challenges revolving around scaling
Quality control, including improvement of the documentation process, website improvement and automation of regression testing of releases
Outreach
The funding will be subject to the approval of the BUIP.
Bitcoin Unlimited has been slowly gaining adoption as well, thanks to Bitcoin Core’s snail-paced approach towards scalability of the protocol. Recently, Bitcoin.com Mining Pool started running Bitcoin Unlimited on its mainnet. We may see more mining pools extending their support in the near future.
Ref: Peter Rizun on Medium | Reddit |Image: BitcoinUnlimited.info
17
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×