http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/23/indias-ncb-plans-seize-500-bitcoin-amid-drug-trafficking-investigation/
India's NCB Plans To Seize 500 Bitcoin Amid Drug Trafficking Investigation
25-11-2016
05:46 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
India’s NCB Plans To Seize 500 Bitcoin Amid Drug Trafficking Investigation
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
39



It is the first time Bitcoins are being seized by the NCB during an investigation.
India is one of those countries warming up to Bitcoin and cryptocurrency. Unfortunately, this is not always a positive trend. A lot of people use Bitcoin for legitimate reasons, but there is an increase in drug trafficking. The Indian Narcotics Control Bureau seized 500 Bitcoin during a drug investigation earlier this week.
The deep web is a significant threat regarding drug and weapon trafficking. These underground marketplaces make it easier for criminals to buy and sell their goods and services online. In India, drug trafficking seems to be the most popular trend on the darknet, and Bitcoin payments play a significant role in the process.
NCB Monitors Bitcoin Activity Among Drug Traffickers
Although many people assume Bitcoin is anonymous, that is far from the case. Similarly to other forms of money, Bitcoin payments create a digital trail of breadcrumbs. In most cases, this will help law enforcement agencies to identify the deep web vendors themselves. In fact, this has lead to 500 BTC being seized by the Narcotics Control Bureau during an ongoing drug trafficking investigation.
It is the first time Bitcoins are being seized by the NCB during an investigation. Three syndicates are currently under investigation for drug trafficking. One of these syndicates operates out of western India and is actively using Bitcoin transactions. Seizing BTC in India, however, requires legal approval to do so. The NCB is working on this aspect, and they are using the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act as legal grounds for this action.
Agency sources told Indian Express the following:
“While criminal probe agencies have seized a variety of assets like cash and immovable assets in their respective investigations all these years, Bitcoins have never been frozen as part of the tainted assets seizure. Bitcoin is equivalent to about Rs 1 crore in the Indian currency. The NCB is moving in that direction.”
Further details regarding this case are difficult to come by at this stage. The NCB did not reveal much more information, other than the fact the information is being vetted by the agency’s headquarters. While it is known this case relates to drug trafficking, no specific substances or quantities were made public at this time.
Source: Indian Express
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
39
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×