https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/bitcoin-blooms-chinese-buyers-yuan-sinks/
Bitcoin Blooms with Chinese Buyers as Yuan Sinks - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin Price NewsNews
Bitcoin Blooms with Chinese Buyers as Yuan Sinks
Samburaj Das on 12/10/2016

Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Bitcoin price has seen sailing good winds lately, spiking early on October 11 from recent averages of $610-$615 to $630. Prices have seen support since, with a high of $649 on the Bitstamp Price Index, a number that hasn’t been scaled since the end of July.
Bitcoin’s rise coincides with the continued fall of the Chinese fiat yuan, sinking to its lowest levels in six years this Monday.
B
itcoin price surged to a 10-week high on Tuesday, following an increased demand from Chinese buyers who are stocking up on bitcoin while expectations for the yuan sank alongside the fiat currency. The yuan fell to its lowest level in six years this week, following a week-long holiday (the Chinese Golden Week, following China’s national day).
The weakening yuan hit that milestone low of 6.72 to the dollar on Tuesday, the first day of trading after the holiday week in the country. The last time yuan sank to the 6.7 mark was in July, when state banks intervened to try and remedy the situation. The lack of such measures, along with no clear directive from the central bank has led to investors turning to bitcoin, in a country that accounts for an overwhelming majority of the bitcoin trading in the world.
The Bitstamp Price Index (BPI) saw trading at $617.24 at 04:00 AM, the early hours of Tuesday. Merely thirty minutes later, price had spiked to $631.62, climbing over 2.5%.
The surge coincides with bitcoin activity in China via major exchange BTCC, at the same time.
BTCCNY Chart from TradingView
China’s economy has stagnated in recent years and the People’s Bank of China, the country’s central bank, has repeatedly slashed and lowered interest rates in attempts to spur a stuttering economy. At this time last year, China’s growth slipped below the 7 percent growth mandate set by the government. The decline was the weakest in a quarter since 2009, when the world was in the midst of the financial crisis.
Increasing food prices and lowering manufacturing numbers have led to a stagnating economy. The bleak outlook now combined with a lack of intervention from banking regulators is likely to drive everyday Chinese investors to further seek out bitcoin as a safe store of value.
At the time of publishing, bitcoin is trading at $636.77.
For a live Bitcoin Price chart, click here.
For yesterday’s daily bitcoin price analysis piece from CCN analyst Jim Fredrickson, click here.
All time references are in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).
Featured image from Shutterstock.
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Bitcoin Price News, News Tagged in: china

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextBlockchain Firm Digital Asset Files Patent for an ‘Electronic Settlement Platform’12/10/2016
PreviousThis Company Uses Bitcoin Blockchain For Medical Marijuana DNA Sequencing12/10/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.