https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-10-24/bitcoin-jumps-to-three-month-high-as-yuan-weakness-fuels-buying
Bitcoin Jumps to Three-Month High as Yuan Weakness Fuels Buying - Bloomberg
Bloomberg the Company & Its ProductsBloomberg Anywhere LoginBloomberg Terminal Demo Request






Sign In
Subscribe to Businessweek
Bitcoin Jumps to Three-Month High as Yuan Weakness Fuels Buying
Justina Lee
October 24, 2016 — 7:15 AM EDT
Chinese investors are hedging yuan risks with Bitcoin: Huobi
Price is close to recovering plunge sparked by Bitfinex hack
Offshore Yuan Nears Record Low
Bitcoin rose to an almost three-month high amid a surge in volume as the yuan extended a six-year low, bolstering Chinese demand for alternative assets.
The cryptocurrency jumped as much as 4 percent from Friday to $655.50, the highest since July 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volume climbed to an almost seven-month high of 5.5 million bitcoin on Sunday, data on Bitcoinity.org showed.
Bitcoin’s gains are coinciding with a new bout of currency weakness in China, which accounts for about 90 percent of trading. The digital asset allows Chinese people, who face capital controls that limit the amount of cash they can move abroad, to invest in another currency. Bitcoin’s value is now close to recovering from a plunge in early August that was triggered by the hacking of Hong Kong-based exchange Bitfinex.
“As the yuan enters a path of depreciation, investors will consider investing in assets that can preserve value and hedge risks," said Zhu Jiawei, Beijing-based chief operating officer at Huobi, one of the largest Chinese bitcoin exchanges.
The yuan’s declines accelerated this month as the dollar surged amid mounting expectations for a U.S. interest-rate increase by year-end. China has made it harder to take money overseas since August 2015’s devaluation as it sought to stem a vicious cycle where outflows fueled further depreciation. Bitcoin skyrocketed 80 percent from the end of 2015 to reach a 2 1/2-year high of $777.01 on June 17 amid faster yuan declines and expectations for a fall in bitcoin supply in July.
Start your day with what’s moving markets.
Get our markets daily newsletter.
Sign Up
Bitcoin was trading at 4,488.6 yuan on Monday on Huobi, amounting to a premium of about 2 percent compared with its dollar price. The gap may widen further as stricter capital controls have made it harder for traders to arbitrage the difference, said Arthur Hayes, Hong Kong-based founder of bitcoin exchange BitMEX. He expects bitcoin to strengthen to $1,000 by January as the yuan falls to 7 against the greenback, he said. China’s exchange rate dropped 0.1 percent Monday to 6.7723.
"The continued devaluation of the Chinese yuan is what’s driving traders at the margin to buy bitcoin," Hayes said.
Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal. LEARN MORE
  by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
From The Web
1,000,000 are using this app to learn a new language
Babbel
Revolutionary Way to Stop Snoring
My Snoring Solution
L'Oreal-Proactive On Income Protection For Their Employees
Financial Times
This game will keep you up all night!
Pirates: Free Online Game
360 Video Experiences Of Abu Dhabi-You'll Wonder Why You Haven't Visited Yet
CNN for Abu Dhabi Tourism
U.S. Presidents Ranked from First to Worst
InsideGov — By Graphiq
Terms of Service Trademarks Privacy Policy ©2016 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved
Careers Made in NYC Advertise Ad Choices Website Feedback Help