http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/18/gavin-smith-calls-for-better-bitcoin-security-for-traders/
First Global's CEO Gavin Smith Calls for Better Bitcoin Security for Traders
25-11-2016
05:06 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
First Global’s CEO Gavin Smith Calls for Better Bitcoin Security for Traders
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News
4



The CEO of First Global Credit has recently advised cryptocurrency platforms to exercise caution and minimize risks to ensure the protection of their customers' interests. Read more...
The cyber security threats against cryptocurrency exchanges are currently at an all-time high. As platforms continue to come under attack, the CEO of First Global Credit, Gavin Smith, has advised traders and exchange platforms to minimize risk by following better standards.
Smith asked the companies to reconsider their existing business strategies to ensure that their risks don’t outweigh potential benefits. He was speaking at the Blockchain Money Conference in London last week where he shared the stage with some of the other prominent names in the cryptocurrency industry. First Global Credit, in its press release, quotes its CEO, saying:
“In the conventional capital markets, we have many metrics used to measure risk. They are not great; they are not foolproof, but they are a decent framework that measures where the risk comes from. In the cryptocurrency world, we don’t have it yet.”
His statement was soon followed by an example of how First Global Credit is currently reducing the counterparty risk by using Bitcoin as a collateral margin to trade against fiat currencies, stocks, precious metals and ETFs. In order to minimize the risk exposure, the platform rates global Bitcoin exchanges based on various criteria, including their location, transparency, management structure and the track record. After due diligence, First Global spreads the assets across multiple exchanges that meets its criteria.  Also, it ensures that the exposure to a single platform never exceeds 15 percent of total holdings.
The features mentioned by Smith can be considered as a good practice as the chances of these reputed exchanges collapsing is very less, and owing to their reputation, these platforms tend to have sufficient liquidity as well. On the other hand, by reducing the exposure to 15 percent, even in the worst case scenario –like a replay of Bitfinex hacking incident — the losses are minimised, and can be easily recovered or compensated without any service disruption.
Exchanges are Centralizing Bitcoin
Smith also acknowledged increasing centralization of exchange services as another major risk factor. The majority of the exchanges currently holds its customers’ funds on its platform for a longer duration. This practice increases the platform’s liability in case of a security breach while painting itself as an attractive target for the hackers. By practicing completely decentralized model where the buy and sell orders are matched real time, they can reduce the portion of funds handled by the platform at any given time.
Few other best practices include maintenance of bare minimum liquidity in the hot wallets while storing rest of the cryptocurrencies in secure, cold storage and vaults. Other advanced failsafe and validation procedures can also be introduced to prevent unauthorized access and transfers from cold wallet to hot wallets or other addresses.
Gavin Smith’s advice for the cryptocurrency exchanges and traders have to be taken seriously and it is time for the cryptocurrency platforms to ensure that their customers’ funds are safe as long as it is in their possession. Even if it takes one or two more additional steps, people may not mind.
Ref: First Global Credit | Image:  Shutterstock
4
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.