http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/21/bitcoin-price-watch-mixing-things-little-weekend/
Bitcoin Price Watch; Mixing Things Up A Little For The Weekend - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
10:46 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Price Watch; Mixing Things Up A Little For The Weekend
Author
Samuel Rae
Categories
Analysis, Bitcoin
21



Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening, and beyond in to the weekend.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
The market is about to draw to a close out of Europe, and things have been pretty wild this week in the bitcoin price. We noted in this morning’s analysis that we’ve had numerous opportunities to get in and out of the markets according to our intraday strategy, and we’re hoping that this will continue over the weekend. Normally, when it comes to this time on a Friday, we set up some tight key levels and look to draw some scalp profits from the market on intraday breaks.
Tonight, however, we’re going to mix things up a little bit. Not that much, but a little.
We’re going to widen out our timeframes and attempt to apply the same strategy to something a little longer term. Specifically, we’re going to go at things on the hourly timeframe, with the intention of setting up our key levels and getting in to a position that takes the length of the weekend to mature. There’s a little more risk in this sort of position, purely based on the room we’ve got to give ourselves from a stop loss perspective, but the reward is greatly increased. Plus, it’s a little bit of fun to set and forget over the weekend.
So, with this in mind, let’s get to the detail. Take a look at the chart below to see our hourly chart and the levels in focus going forward.
As the chart shows, the levels we are looking at are in term support to the downside at 625 and in term resistance to the upside at 637. If price breaks above the latter, we will look to get in long towards an upside target of 650 flat. A stop on the position somewhere in the region of 633 defines risk nicely.
Conversely, a close below support signals short towards 610. A stop on this one at 630 works well.
So, let’s set and forget and see how things play out.
Happy trading!
Charts courtesy of SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
21
PUBLISHED BY
Samuel Rae
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
This article is Sponsored by
You'll can skip this Ad in 1 seconds...
SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before
130 COUNTRIES | 40000+ TRADERS