https://ibsintelligence.com/ibs-journal/ibs-news/us-author-blames-bitcoin-for-rise-of-right-wing-politics/
US author blames Bitcoin for rise of right-wing politics - IBS Intelligence
   IBS Newsletter
Register/Log In
Contact Us
Your Cart - £0.00
Menu
21
OCT 2016
US author blames Bitcoin for rise of right-wing politics
Previous | Next
 US academic and author David Golumbia has written a new book about how both Bitcoin and blockchain are the root cause of the rise in right-wing political thought across the globe. Golumba, an Assistant English Professor at Virginia Commonwealth University, went further into his views with a blog post entitled “Trump, Clinton and the Electoral Politics of Bitcoin”.
In the post, Golumbia says that Bitcoin and blockchain, through their democratisation and decentralisation, as well as resistance to interference, are promoting “extreme” right-wing concepts. He goes on to claim that both are interfering with the ongoing US presidential election, adding that there is a substantial section of Bitcoin users who support Donald Trump.
“There is certainly a fair amount of support for Trump among Bitcoin enthusiasts, though I’m not aware of any polling that would allow us to break that down into numbers,” writes Golumbia. “Of course Bitcoin didn’t cause Trump—but the kinds of false, angry, other-targeting ideologies on which the Trump phenomenon depends can be readily found in all the kinds of online communities … We should be very worried about Trump, and we should be worried about how Bitcoin and other parts of online discourse feed the hate and studied ignorance that make so many people support him.”
Not wanting to spend the entirety of his blog bashing the right, Golumbia also turned some his attention on the left. Bemoaning the rise in Bitcoin enthusiasm from the mainstream left, he asked why people couldn’t understand the link between the “values” of Bitcoin and those of the hard right. Wacky conspiracy theory or the hard truth? IBS Intelligence will leave the answer up to you.
By Alex Hamilton
Follow Alex at @ADHamilton91
Related Reports
Core Banking Systems Case Studies
£2,000.00
ADD TO CART
Core Banking Systems Market Dynamics Report 2016
£2,000.00
ADD TO CART
IBS Journal

£545.00
SELECT OPTIONS
Universal Banking Systems Report
£1,500.00
ADD TO CART


Advertise with us
Weekly Round-up – 28th October
Market News
About IBS
IBS Journal
Reports
Consulting
Buy
Events
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Terms & Conditions
Why buy from us
© IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC.
Developed by: Pi Techniques