http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/12/36026/
Japan is Proving to be a Major Bitcoin Haven - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:58 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Japan is Proving to be a Major Bitcoin Haven
Author
Nick Marinoff
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
241



Bitcoin has become an object of affection in Japan.
A new reality series entitled BitGirls is slated to bring bitcoin to the masses. The program is designed to educate the general public about digital currency usage with the help of an all-female cast who “become” digital currencies during the show and complete various challenges. Viewers can support their favorite players by purchasing her tokens and giving her points to move ahead in the competition.
The show will play on Friday nights starting in November, and will be broadcast on Tokyo Metropolitan Television. Producer Takao Asayama explains:
“People have to watch [the] TV live instead of recording it. Otherwise, viewers could miss a good time to sell [or] buy.”
In other news, digital currency users in Japan may be subject to tax relief in the coming months. Members of the Finance Ministry and Financial Services Agency have been discussing the prospects behind “reducing costs for buyers” and lowering taxes for virtual currency exchange operators. Granted headway is made, sales tax on digital currencies could cease as early as next spring.
Japan is the only leading country that taxes bitcoin sales. Last May, bitcoin regulation also became a relatively hot topic when a bill regulating digital currency was introduced to exchange operators. Since Mt. Gox, the country’s reputation has been subjected to backlashing, anger and mistrust amongst digital currency users. Slated to take effect soon, the new bill is aimed at giving digital currency enthusiasts and exchange operators a greater sense of security. The bill will allow the FSA to conduct on-site inspections, and enforce “know your customer” practices, which have often been non-existent in the digital currency arena. The bill also specifically defines virtual money as a form of payment.
It is estimated that there are about 2,500 stores in Japan that accept bitcoin.
241
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×