http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/09/caricoin-looks-jamaica-new-home/
Caricoin Looks to Jamaica for its New Home - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
07:15 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Caricoin Looks to Jamaica for its New Home
Author
Nick Marinoff
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
41



London-based Caricoin is looking to open a new bitcoin exchange in Jamaica, and negotiating with the country’s primary bank for support.
Banks and digital currency have had a rocky relationship. On one hand, the Bank of England is swearing to create their own virtual currency in the near future. At the same time, figures like Bill Gross are turning away from central banking and promoting bitcoin as the “new and improved” route for investors.
Presently, there is no clear vision on how to fuse Caricoin with Jamaican banks, although the executives behind the bitcoin wallet feel it would be in Jamaica’s best interest to consider their ideas. Joining the Bank of Jamaica and Caricoin could open new windows and lead the Bank’s operations and records to run completely via blockchain technology, a feat recently proposed in Dubai.
Regulatory advisor Karsten Becker explains:
“Getting the approvals to run an exchange will enable us to cross this bridge by permitting our users to link their bank accounts or debit cards directly to their Bitcoin wallets, and to use this new functionality to easily buy and sell Bitcoin. Caricoin was created by a group of Jamaicans living abroad, and we thought at home was the best place to kick things off for the region.”
Bitcoin is the only virtual currency in Jamaica that seems to be earning any respect. Should Caricoin open its exchange, it would be the first bitcoin-based exchange in the country. Caricoin is confident that bitcoin’s success in Jamaica will be longstanding, but wants to experiment on the Ethereum blockchain before making any sudden moves. The company is also aiming to make bitcoin the country’s official currency.
Becker added:
“Due to the massive benefits to be gained by using Bitcoin in our developing region, we envision a new era where Bitcoin will truly complement traditional currencies and allow people from the Caribbean to be a larger part of the global financial community. We call this ‘financial inclusion.’”
41
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×