http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/innovation/bitcoin-wallet-orovider-airbitz-brings-private-key-security-for-daos/
Bitcoin Wallet Provider Airbitz Brings Private Key Security for DAOs | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyInnovationBitcoin Wallet Provider Airbitz Brings Private Key Security for DAOs
Bitcoin Wallet Provider Airbitz Brings Private Key Security for DAOs
Developers can now use Airbitz's open-source SDK for their dApps, instead of having to create security solutions from scratch.
Avi Mizrahi | Innovation (CryptoCurrency) | Wednesday, 02/11/2016|09:08 GMT
0
0
Photo: Avi Mizrahi
Airbitz, a Bitcoin wallet provider and creator of the Edge Security SDK, and WINGS, a decentralized platform to create DAOs, have joined together to enable a new generation of more secure DAOs for Bitcoin and other blockchains. The partnership deal provides WINGS with Airbitz’s solution to make the private key management of DAO participants more streamlined and safe.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) are an organizational concept that allows for trustless contracts between distributed participants. WINGS combines the DAO concept with decision-making using decentralized forecast markets, while making this accessible to anyone with a smart phone.
San Diego based Airbitz allows users to securely access a multi-blockchain world using a single sign-on while retaining control over their private keys and authentication. Developers can now leverage the Airbitz’s open-source SDK for their decentralized apps (dApps), instead of having to create their own security solutions from scratch.
“We’re excited to partner with Airbitz and offer this to the WINGS DAO community,” said Boris Povod, WINGS Core Developer. “Airbitz lets people easily interact with DAOs using stored encrypted private keys, and anyone can login simply with a username/password.”
Airbitz CEO Paul Puey
“WINGS, much like Airbitz, is committed to delivering a user-friendly experience for people interested in using blockchain assets in their applications,” said Airbitz CEO Paul Puey. “Our partnership with WINGS will make interacting with the next generation of DAOs a seamless and accessible experience. We’re proud to add WINGS to the growing list of premier blockchain apps powered by Airbitz Edge Security.”
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: bitcoin / blockchain technology / Cryptosecurity / Cyber Security
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 9 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 12 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 12 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Siemens to Reform New York's Energy Market with LO3 Blockchain Microgrids
Lykke Unveils a Project Crowdsourcing/Collaboration Platform, Lykke Streams
Goldman Sachs Parts Ways with R3 Consortium to Pursue Independent Research
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions