http://coinjournal.net/new-indian-mining-pool-gbminers-gains-3-of-network-hashrate-views-bitcoin-unlimited-positively/
Indian Bitcoin Mining Pool Gains 3% Of Network Hashrate
Coinjournal
LATEST NEWS
DATA
PRESS RELEASES
CONTACT
WORK WITH US
Home Bitcoin Mining News New Indian Mining Pool GBMiners Gains 3% of Network Hashrate, Views Bitcoin...
Bitcoin NewsTechnologyProtocolUncategorized
New Indian Mining Pool GBMiners Gains 3% of Network Hashrate, Views Bitcoin Unlimited Positively
By Kyle Torpey -
November 18, 2016
0
2549
Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter
Roughly three to four percent of Bitcoin’s overall hashrate is now pointed at a mining pool in India, putting it in the top ten of mining pools in the world. This Indian mining pool, known as GBMiners, recently received an undisclosed amount of funding from Amit Bhardwaj, who is also a co-founder of the the new venture.
The vast majority of mining hardware currently pointed at the GBMiners mining pool is owned by Bhardwaj.
Although other news outlets have reported GBMiners is the largest bitcoin mining pool outside of China, both BitFury and Slushpool, which aren’t based in China, still have a greater share of the overall network hashrate.
In addition to their interest in bitcoin mining, GBMiners also plans to mine on the Ethereum and Zcash networks.
A Brief History of GBMiners
According to GBMiners’s Sanjay Goswami, the mining pool mined their first block on August 30th. Goswami explained how GBMiners came together when two of the founders of Darwin Labs were introduced to Bhardwaj at a party:
“Nikunj [Jain] and Sahil [Baghla] were introduced by someone to Amit [Bhardwaj] at a party, and Amit ran huge amount of mining power, spread across all major pools,” said Goswami. “We had just got interested in cryptocurrencies and were trying to decide our first product, and seeing our energy and enthusiasm, Amit said, ‘I have an idea we can work on together.’”
According to Goswami, this is an offer that could not be refused, mainly due to Bhardwaj’s relatively long history in Bitcoin. As someone who had been mining on multiple mining pools connected to the Bitcoin network, Bhardwaj was able to share some ideas on how a new pool could improve the efficiency of his own hashing power.
“We started researching, put out some of our test servers, and most of what he said resonated with our findings,” claimed Goswami.
Details of the Mining Pool
Although there are some other independent miners using GBMiners right now, a significant portion of the mining hardware currently pointed at the pool is owned by Bhardwaj. According to Bhardwaj’s personal website, his Amaze Mining & Blockchain Research Ltd. owns and operates bitcoin mining hardware that represents more than 5 percent of the overall network hashrate.
Although the mining pool is based in India, the hardware pointed at the pool is located in China. “We are still discovering in India about the machine setup and all,” said Goswami.
A Positive Outlook on Bitcoin Unlimited
Bitcoin Unlimited is a software client that intends to hard fork the Bitcoin blockchain after a certain amount of support for an increase in the block size limit is perceived on the network. ViaBTC and Bitcoin.com are the two major mining pools currently pushing the hardest for a hard fork initated by Bitcoin Unlimited.
In a recent AMA, ViaBTC founder and CEO Haipo Yang claimed GBMiners and a few other mining pools are planning to switch from Bitcoin Core (the current reference implementation of the Bitcoin protocol) to Bitcoin Unlimited. However, when asked directly for GBMiners’s views on Bitcoin Core and the block size limit debate, Goswami responded, “We are still forming a concrete opinion about it, but we are really positive about Bitcoin Unlimited.”
GBMiners came out of Darwin Labs, which is also working on a bitcoin bank currently operating in stealth mode.
TAGS
Amit Bhardwaj
Bitcoin mining
Bitcoin Unlimited
Darwin Labs
GBMiners
India
Mining Pool
tweet
Previous article
Circle CEO Allaire: It’s Highly Unlikely We’ll Be Using Bitcoin in 5 or 10 Years
Next article
Factom Receives Grant From Gates Foundation For Medical Records Project
Kyle Torpey
Kyle Torpey is a freelance journalist who has been following Bitcoin since 2011. His work has been featured on VICE Motherboard, Business Insider, RT’s Keiser Report, and many other media outlets. You can follow @kyletorpey on Twitter.
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Bitcoin News
Charlie Shrem Unveils New Venture Intellisys Capital
Bitcoin News
TumbleBit Part 3: Potential Privacy Improvements for Bitcoin’s Lightning Network
Bitcoin News
Circle CEO Allaire: It’s Highly Unlikely We’ll Be Using Bitcoin in 5 or 10 Years
Don't Miss Another Story
Get The Best Bitcoin, Blockchain & Cryptocurrency News Delivered Straight To Your Inbox & Get Exclusive Access To Our Giveaways
Email
WeeklyDaily
Recent Posts
Controversial IRS Request To Coinbase Highlights Need For Updated Tax Guidelines
Charlie Shrem Unveils New Venture Intellisys Capital
Smartrac Launches Document Authentication Solution Powered by Blockchain
ABOUT US
CoinJournal brings you the latest Bitcoin, cryptocurrency and blockchain news from around the world. We pride ourselves on journalistic integrity which is reflected in the high quality of our content. High-quality journalism costs money and though we supplement the cost of running the site with limited adverts. If you enjoy reading CoinJournal, please consider donating via 1RAx3kijGf3YBp18v1omB8cWxaahyawos
Contact us: oliver@coinjournal.net
FOLLOW US
Privacy Policy About Us Editorial Policy Contact Us Work With Us Shop
© Copyright 2016 - CoinJournal.net (A Big Monster Mining Website)