http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/10/bitcoin-price-technical-analysis-11102016-bulls-ready-charge/
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/10/2016 - Bulls Ready to Charge Again? - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:21 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/10/2016 – Bulls Ready to Charge Again?
Author
Sarah Jenn
Categories
Analysis, Bitcoin
39



Bitcoin price is settling inside a new rising channel on its 1-hour time frame and might be due for a test of support soon.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Bitcoin Price Key Highlights
Bitcoin price is trending higher on its 1-hour time frame, moving inside an ascending channel pattern.
Price just bounced off the resistance and is making its way back towards support.
Technical indicators are suggesting that the uptrend could carry on, possibly leading to another test of the channel resistance.
Bitcoin price is settling inside a new rising channel on its 1-hour time frame and might be due for a test of support soon.
Technical Indicators Signals
The 100 SMA is below the longer-term 200 SMA for now so the path of least resistance is to the downside. However, the gap between the moving averages is narrowing so an upward crossover could happen. In that case, bullish pressure could return and allow the climb to resume. After all, these moving averages coincide with the channel support around $710-715, adding to its strength as a floor.
Stochastic is making its way out of the oversold area to indicate a return in buying pressure as well. The oscillator has a long way to go before reaching overbought levels so there’s plenty of room for bitcoin price to rise, possibly even going for a break past the channel resistance at $740.
In addition, a bullish divergence can be seen since stochastic made lower lows while price had higher lows since November 8. The channel support lines up with an area of interest above $705, which previously held as resistance.
Market Events
The outcome of the US elections didn’t have much of an impact on bitcoin price volatility as ranges remained intact and no sharp spikes were seen, unlike in other financial markets. There is still a lot of uncertainty associated with new president Donald Trump but traders seem to be giving him the benefit of the doubt for now, which is supporting the US dollar against bitcoin in the process.
Still, investors are expected to scurry back to bitcoin the moment risks arise, particularly when Trump gives another display of his brash rhetoric and flip-flopping economic plans. In this case, traders could seek higher returns on bitcoin than in stock markets.
Charts from SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
39
PUBLISHED BY
Sarah Jenn
Sarah has been involved in the cryptocurrency space since the very beginning. Having stumbled across well hidden discussions in early forums she immersed herself in the industry, and is now a leading author and consultant for a range of bitcoin companies. She loves DASH and mathematics. View all posts by Sarah Jenn
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.