http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/27/webmoney-fiat-bitcoin-merchant-support/
WebMoney Offers Bitcoin Support to Fiat Purses - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
05:19 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
WebMoney Offers Bitcoin Support to Fiat Purses
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News



The Russian payments solution company, WebMoney has announced Bitcoin support to its merchant purses. All Bitcoin payments to be automatically converted and deposited to respective fiat wallets...
WebMoney, the Moscow-based Russian online payment solution platform has announced support for Bitcoin. The new feature enables merchants to accept Bitcoin payments from customers who are not signed up on WebMoney.
The latest addition, which was launched by the company earlier this week, enables merchants that use “Merchant WebMoney” service to accept payments without having to go through multiple steps, like in the previous version. Earlier, merchants were able to accept Bitcoin on a dedicated X-Purse online wallet. But now they can accept the digital currency on their respective Z-Purse for US Dollar; R-Purse for Russian Ruble and U-Purse for Ukrainian Hryvnia.
Whenever a customer chooses to pay with Bitcoin, an equivalent in the respective fiat currency will be credited to the linked purse. This way, merchants can offer an additional payment option without having to worry about any integration hassles. The inclusion of digital currency support comes at the time when the country’s cryptocurrency regulatory environment hangs in a balance.
Recently, the Russian Finance Ministry announced that it will be reviewing the current cryptocurrency draft law in consultation with experts in the field. But other government bodies continue to crack down on digital currencies. A few weeks ago, Local Bitcoins — the leading peer to peer cryptocurrency exchange platform was banned in the country.
While the Russian financial sector is quite averse to cryptocurrencies, the central bank and other banking and financial institutions are more open to its underlying technology. The Russian banking consortium is currently working on developing distributed ledger based solutions for its operations.
Amidst the uncertainty, WebMoney is currently testing waters. If it is successful, then we can expect more companies to start supporting Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies as alternative modes of payment in the country.
Ref: WebMoney | Image: NewsBTC
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×