http://www.coindesk.com/bitfinex-hack-still-scaring-bitcoin-traders/
The Bitfinex Hack is Still Scaring Away Bitcoin Traders - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$729
$734
$739
USD -0.07%
$737.78
CNY 0.19%
¥5,194.71
EUR €696.39
GBP £591.07
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
FEATURES  •  PRICES
The Bitfinex Hack is Still Scaring Away Bitcoin Traders
Charles Bovaird | Published on October 21, 2016 at 12:55 GMT
FEATURE
367
10
1
Bitfinex's hack continues to cast a shadow.
While the price of bitcoin had a relatively quiet month in September (one characterized by low volatility and lackluster trading), the Bitfinex hack continued to serve as a drag on the world's largest digital currency market.
Arthur Hayes, CEO and co-founder of bitcoin trading platform BitMEX, noted that the sideways price movements that took place during the month were most likely a direct consequence of the Bitfinex hack. He argued that with 120,000 BTC removed from the market, the event continues to "suffocate bitcoin interest and sentiment".
But even though trading volume was tepid during September, speculation was high, and these market conditions combined to fuel some rapid and aggressive long and short squeezes.
Overall, bitcoin prices rose 6.3% during September, which represented the smallest monthly change observed since March, CoinDesk USD Bitcoin Price Index (BPI) data reveals.
While this figure was slightly smaller than July’s 6.93% drop and August’s 8.56% decline, it was sharply lower than the fluctuations experienced in May and June, when bitcoin prices surged 21.70% and 26.46%, respectively.
Sideways movements
Indeed, after experiencing some major fluctuations early in the month, bitcoin prices moved little for the duration of September.
The digital currency’s modest price movements resulted in low volatility, and data supplied by leveraged bitcoin exchange BitMEX supported this market calm.
The BitMEX 30-day Historical Volatility Index (also known as the .BVOL Index), averaged 24.7% in September, less than half of August’s figure of 49.97%.
Volatility started out very high in September, surging to 48.84% on 1st September and averaging 29.9% during the first four days of the month, additional BitMEX figures reveal.
However, these numbers then proceeded to push gradually lower.
But bitcoin prices experienced some notable fluctuations early in the month, developments analysts asserted were likely caused by single traders making large transactions.
Single traders were able to trigger these major price fluctuations as the "disappearance of a large amount of bitcoins" created "reduced liquidity on the exchanges," said Whaleclub's Petar Zivkovski. "The order books were 40-60% thinner than they were historically, on average, resulting in price spikes or crashes even on relatively low volume."
This thin liquidity combined with high speculation, as Whaleclub data reveals market sentiment was overwhelmingly bullish during the month. Long interest – as measured by the total position size – averaged 81% in September.
Still, many traders prefer to sit on the sidelines in anticipation of a "big move" and higher liquidity, Zivkovski noted.
Bitfinex recovers
While Bitfinex has been cited as having a depressing impact on the bitcoin market, the exchange made several announcements during the month that helped restore market confidence in its future.
The exchange announced redemptions of its Bitfinex tokens (issued to investors as IOUs for the loss) on 1st September and 30th September. Then on 16th September, Bitfinex offered further detail on opportunities for exchanging BFX tokens, announcing a special purpose vehicle for converting BFX tokens into beneficial interests in iFinex, its parent company.
While some market observers were critical of the exchange’s response to the hack, Kong Gao, overseas marketing manager for bitcoin trader Richfund, offered a different point of view, stating that Bitfinex made "all the right moves to recover from their loss".
Elsewhere, digital hedge fund operator Jacob Eliosoff described September as a "dull month."
Trading was lackluster, volatility was for the most part low and notable price movements were few in number, he said.
However, as Bitfinex continues to make efforts to regain the confidence of traders and the memory of its issues fades, the market could be poised for recovery as we head into 2017.
Haunted house image via Shutterstock
BitfinexExchangesPrices
367
10
1
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
China Pushes for Blockchain Cooperation With New Research...
NEXT ARTICLE
Former NYDFS Counsel Joins Perkins Coie Blockchain Practice
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
FEATURE
Nov 19, 2016 at 15:25 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Breaches $750 But Struggles to Set New 2016 High
Bitcoin prices repeatedly breached $750 during the week through 18th November as traders responded to macroeconomic uncertainty.
NEWS
Nov 18, 2016 at 13:25 | Pete Rizzo
Bitcoin Price Passes $750 as it Nears Five-Month High
The price of bitcoin is now trading above $750, its highest total in nearly five months.
NEWS
Nov 16, 2016 at 13:30 | Pete Rizzo
The Price of Bitcoin Just Jumped $30 in One Hour
The price of bitcoin rose nearly $30 over the course of one hour today, rising to a high of $740 as the price continued to flirt with annual highs.
NEWS
Nov 15, 2016 at 12:59 | Pete Rizzo
Bitcoin Exchange Gemini Adds APIs for Automated Traders
New York bitcoin exchange Gemini has announced a series of new API offerings aimed at automated traders.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 91 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.