http://www.pcauthority.com.au/News/441325,paypals-peter-thiel-joins-donald-trumps-transition-team.aspx
PayPal's Peter Thiel joins Donald Trump's transition team - PC & Tech Authority
Sign in or Register
  PCs & Laptops
  Peripherals
  Handhelds
  Software
  Components
  Gadgets
    Search
News • Reviews • Features • Galleries • A-List • Group Tests • Downloads • How To • Buy •
Atomic Forums Upgrade Australia
Home  »  General  »  News
PayPal's Peter Thiel joins Donald Trump's transition team
by Clare Hopping  |  Tuesday 15 November 2016  | 0 Comments
The controversial tech leader will help Trump connect with Silicon Valley companies.
PayPal founder Peter Thiel will join Trump's transition team, reportedly helping him build bridges with technology companies in Silicon Valley and other tech hubs around the US.
“A page in the book of history has turned, and there is an opening to think about some of our problems from a new perspective,” Thiel told The New York Times. “I’ll try to help the president in any way I can.”
His words (and actions) come as huge swathes of the technology industry are speaking out about Trump's win, with venture capitalists discussing a California secession, leaving the state and possibly the country, to find companies in other areas they could invest in.
Thiel himself came under fire for announcing his support for the candidate before the results were announced and after donating $1.25 million to Trump’s campaign. There were calls for him to stand down from his board position at Facebook and as an advisor at Y Combinator.
However, the tech innovator explained his decision to support Trump was made because he felt Clinton did not address many of the issues affecting US business at the moment – a sentiment he claimed many US voters shared. He now wants to reassure those in the most powerful tech superhub that the new president isn't a threat and can help their businesses prosper.
“[Donald Trump's] odds were very badly underestimated,” Thiel added. “Trump voters were not being captured by the polls. A lot of the dynamics were very similar to the Brexit vote in the UK," he said.
People have become disillusioned with the US's failing economy, Thiel said, leading voters to look outside the so-called political elite. Trump took advantage of the fact Clinton didn't remember, as her husband had in 1992, to talk about how she would fix the economic downturn, which was a huge mistake in Thiel's opinion.
“Somehow the Clintons did not remember,” he said. “It was a blind spot.”
RELATED ARTICLES
This is what Donald Trump said to Tim Cook in their first chat since ...
Donald Trump concedes that maybe – just maybe – humans might be ...
Facebook and Google launch first strikes against fake news
Tech firms urge Trump to reverse encryption stance
Interest in encrypted email spikes following Trump win
Source: Copyright © Alphr, Dennis Publishing
See more about:  donald trump  |  peter thiel  |  silicon valley  |  transition team
  Tweet
Email this
Print this
Feedback
  MORE IN GENERAL (1 OF 10 ARTICLES)
NEWS
This might be why peer review is struggling
MOST READ
MOST DISCUSSED
Top 25 fantasy games of all time
How to: How much RAM do you really need?
Head-to-Head: Synology DS216+ versus QNAP TS-251+ 2-bay NAS
Finally, a smartwatch you never need to charge
How to: Organise your photos
LATEST COMMENTS
FourEyedGeek Hey guys at PC Authority, What is going on with these big named AAA first person shooters? Am I just an old gamer now that longs for the good ol' days that didn't exist, is there are dearth of good...
Review: Battlefield 1 - Experience the dawn of modern warfare · 6 hours ago
Jayden Lawson "12 hour long episodes" - those are very long episodes!
Amazon’s new Grand Tour series could be the next illegal download victim · 10 hours ago
Rayz0r "how can we possibly expect them to be on top of all the cyber-security threats attacking their organisation" And there's the most depressing thing, worse than even the long hours and unpaid...
74% of IT pros work unpaid overtime each week · 1 day ago
Rayz0r Pokemon is a Japanese game. Not American, not Australian, nor British. As a Japanese game, there are some things that it has done quite well over the years - the social aspect and the principled...
Hey, Pokémon - we need to talk · 1 day ago
Powered by Disqus
LATEST IN GENERAL
NEWS
This might be why peer review is struggling
REVIEW
Star Wars BB8. Your little round BFF
FEATURE
Facebook’s accidental ‘death’ of users reminds us to plan ...
GALLERY
Gallery: Upgrade Australia 4.0!
FROM OUR PARTNERS
    See more offers from the
PC & Tech Authority Software Store
    SPONSORED LINKS
Play For Free
Radeon Pro: The Art of The Impossible
Delivering Premium VR and Gaming Experiences Beyond HD!
MOST POPULAR TECH STORIES
7 accounting packages for Australian small businesses compared: including MYOB, QuickBooks Online, Reckon, Xero
DJI Mavic Pro review: a drone for business or pleasure
Telstra closing 3G: here's how to check if your phone is Next G compatible
How long will a UPS keep your computers on if the lights go out?
How do I make sure my email is properly synced between all my computers?
HP toasts Data#3, Ingram Micro, Synnex and channel partners at Partner First Awards dinner in Sydney
Veritas partners and customers party in Sydney
Brennan IT Christmas party: partners, clients and... celebrities?
Police arrest IT provider in relation to National Union of Workers fraud
Ingram Micro toasts 2016 partners
Ex-SAI manager took spreadsheets via USB before quitting
NBN Co moved an FTTN cabinet after users asked to connect
AWS rival Alibaba to open Sydney data centre
iiNet complaints skyrocket after TPG takeover
Telstra's new infosec cops will police all dev code
10 advanced tips for Rainbow Six Siege
20 key tips for succeeding at Rainbow Six Siege
EA Shooter Showdown: Titanfall 2 vs Battlefield 1
PSA: You can play Red Dead Redemption on PC… kinda
Review: AOC Agon AG271QX 27in display
About Us  |  Sitemap  |  Newsletter Archive  |  A-List  |  Advice  |  Top 10  |  Mobile Site  |  Feedback  |  Advertise  |  Newsletters  |  Contact Us
Atomic MPC  |  BIT  |  CRN Australia  |  iTnews  |  PC PowerPlay  |  SC Magazine
Copyright © 2016 nextmedia Pty Ltd. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorisation.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of nextmedia's Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.