http://www.banklesstimes.com/2016/11/12/indian-bitcoin-company-releases-api/
Indian bitcoin company releases API – Bankless Times
Nov. 26, 2016, 12:47 am
Go to...
Alt-Finance
Crowdfunding
Fin-Tech
Peer-to-Peer (P2P)
Real Estate
Small Business
Fin-Tech Indian bitcoin company releases API
Indian bitcoin company releases API
TONY ZERUCHA
NOV. 12, 2016, 1:18 PM
406 VIEWS
1
Actions
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Indian bitcoin company Unocoin has implemented its first API which allows users to generate bitcoin wallets, transact, receive and store bitcoin, retrieve information and notifications and accept or receive payments.
Unocoin, which services more than 100,000 users, has raised $1.5 million and plans to soon release an Android app to go with its iOS app, both of which are built off their API. Its recently released features includes merchant POS and mobile trading apps,
an auto-selling feature for remittance users, systematic investment planning, integration with NETKI to simplify Bitcoin addresses, an OTC desk for large traders, and integration with Purse.io for discounts on Amazon.
CEO Sathvik Vishwanath
Cofounder and CEO Sathvik Vishwanath explains Unicorn’s value proposition.
“Our API is best described as an on-ramp for firms looking for a simple way to gain entry into one of the world’s fastest growing and largest potential markets. Our team has been working non-stop prior to and during our Pre-Series A round to provide the most reliable, full-featured API, but one that, most importantly, is incredibly easy to adopt.”
A global capital for remittances, gold and IT, India is a lucrative bitcoin and remittance market estimated to be worth $100 billion.
Unicorn’s pre-Series A round was led by Blume Ventures. Digital Currency Group, Boost VC, Bank to the Future, Bitcoin Capital, FundersClub, Mumbai Angels and ah! Ventures also participated.
Get Daily Digest
1
Actions
Facebook
Twitter
Google
About Tony Zerucha
Tony Zerucha is managing editor of Bankless Times.

The evolution of the crowdfunding and peer-to-peer lending scenes is absolutely fascinating to chronicle.

It is a joy to be around people with such passion and vision.

Follow @TonyZerucha
Leave A Comment
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
About Us
Editorial Policy
Mission
Privacy Policy
Start a conversation
Bankless Times advertising rate card
Affiliate Partnerships
© Copyright 2016 Bankless Media Inc.