http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/14/coinifys-partnership-blockchain-strengthen-bitcoin-ecosystem/
Coinify's Partnership with Blockchain to Strengthen the Bitcoin Ecosystem - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:59 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Coinify’s Partnership with Blockchain to Strengthen the Bitcoin Ecosystem
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
12



The partnership between Blockchain and Coinify will soon allow users to fund their Blockchain wallets using the latter's payments solution. Read more...
The leading Bitcoin block explorer and wallet service provider, Blockchain has announced a partnership with the cryptocurrency payments service provider — Coinify. The partnership will allow Blockchain wallet users to utilize Coinify’s payment service to directly fund their Bitcoin wallets almost instantaneously by making fiat payments.
With Coinify’s services, users will be able to buy the digital currency with credit and debit cards using a single user interface. The new implementation will be initially made available to a limited, closed user group. The Chief Executive Officer of Blockchain, Peter Smith was quoted on a financial news website saying,
“Digital currencies and peer-to-peer transaction networks have the potential to modernize a financial system that is currently failing over a third of the global population. This announcement represents a giant step forward in making bitcoin, still a nascent currency, a more compelling and efficient financial solution for new users.”
He was referring to the limited options provided by most of the Bitcoin wallet services when it comes to funding the users’ wallets. In a market with almost 100 different bitcoin wallet services, both big and small, a majority of them only allows users to deposit their “already-owned” bitcoin into their accounts. This makes procuring digital currency a hassle as the users will have to use a trading platform or an exchange with limited payment options to buy the digital currency.
With many exchanges and wallets not accepting card payments, which happens to be the easiest among all payment options, many people are still hesitant to make their first bitcoin purchase to become part of the cryptocurrency community. Blockchain already has over 50 percent of the Bitcoin wallet market share, and Coinify’s integration may see it further strengthen its market share by becoming the point of entry into the cryptocurrency community for billions of those who are currently untouched by Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies.
According to reports, the wallet platform will start testing its services in Europe with a handful of invite-only participants. The platform will then make further improvements to the features based on the feedback received from test participants to create and launch the final product on a global scale.
Coinify has already gained significant traction in the European market, especially after the company received significant investments from SEB, a Swedish banking major which now owns a portion of the crypto-payments processor. The new partnership will further strengthen Coinify’s position in the cryptocurrency ecosystem.
Ref: Finance Magnates | Image: Coinify
12
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×