http://www.reuters.com/article/us-factom-blockchain-draper-idUSKCN1251RG
Billionaire investor Draper leads $4.2 million funding in U.S. blockchain start-up | Reuters
EDITION:
UNITED STATES
Business
Markets
World
Politics
Tech
Commentary
Breakingviews
Money
Life
TECHNOLOGY NEWS | Wed Oct 5, 2016 | 11:19am EDT
Billionaire investor Draper leads $4.2 million funding in U.S. blockchain start-up
Venture capital investor Tim Draper speaks at a panel during the Television Critics Association Cable Summer Press Tour in Beverly Hills, California August 5, 2015. REUTERS/Danny Moloshok
By Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss | NEW YORK
Texas-based Factom, Inc., a blockchain technology company that secures data, said on Wednesday it has raised $4.2 million in financing from a slew of global investors led by billionaire investor Tim Draper.
Blockchain technology powers the digital currency bitcoin and enables data-sharing across a network of individual computers. It has gained worldwide popularity due to its perceived usefulness in recording and keeping track of assets across practically all industries.
Factom Apollo and Factom Iris are products built on the company's open source. They have developed ways to use the blockchain to keep records and identities more secure.
PUBLICIDAD
inRead invented by Teads
"Blockchains first pushed the boundaries of computer science with the simple yet revolutionary ability to trade digital value openly," said Paul Snow, chief architect and co-founder of Factom in a statement.
"Now we are pushing the limits of computer science in a second revolution. The Factom protocol allows for the open coordination of processes against immutable ledgers of data. It will have the same kind of impact on data and systems as the first revolution had on value."
Draper said data security is a key issue among governments, banks, car companies, credit card companies, retailers, and any organization concerned about hacking.
"By decentralizing data through the blockchain, Factom avoids critical failures due to user error or hacker," he added.
Draper has been one of the earliest backers of bitcoin companies.
ALSO IN TECHNOLOGY NEWS
Uber in landmark court battle on Tuesday to escape strict rules
Xiaomi says shrinking smartphone sales won't hit the company
Other investors in the funding round included BnkToTheFuture, a global online investment platform focused on financial innovation and technology.
China-based Fenbushi Corporation and Fenbushi Investment Fund also invested in Factom. The group runs a venture capital firm that exclusively invests in blockchain-enabled companies.
(Reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss; Editing by David Gregorio)
NEXT IN TECHNOLOGY NEWS
Thanksgiving sales surge online as shoppers stay home for holiday
Online spending by U.S. bargain hunters climbed to above $1 billion by Thanksgiving evening, according to Adobe Digital Index, surging almost 14 percent from a year ago and reflecting a broader trend away from brick-and-mortar shopping.
Johnson & Johnson approaches Actelion about takeover deal
ZURICH/FRANKFURT U.S. healthcare company Johnson & Johnson said on Friday it was in preliminary talks with Actelion about a potential takeover of Europe's largest biotech firm, currently valued at about $20 billion.
MORE FROM REUTERS
Trump will get wake-up call when he takes office, Obama says
Ghost airplane attends banquet for new Airbus jet
Willing to oppose Trump, some Senate Republicans gain leverage
China goes global as Trump puts America first
Emirates Airline says some technical issues with Rolls-Royce A380 engines
SPONSORED CONTENT
FROM AROUND THE WEB
Promoted by Taboola
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Soldiers: Free Online Game
Income Protection-Become An Employer Of Choice
Financial Times
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
My Snoring Solution
Watch: An Amazing 360 Experience Of Abu Dhabi's Sights And Sounds
CNN for Abu Dhabi Tourism
Check Out the New Cheap Hotel Room Finder
Save70
This game will keep you up all night!
Pirates: Free Online Game
TRENDING STORIES
1
Blue-collar Democrats to party: It's still the economy, stupid
2
U.S. opens door to oil exports after year of pressure
3
Wall St. pulls back from record; utilities slump
4
U.S. consumer confidence rises in December
5
Shares slip in low-volume trading; safe-havens rise
FOCUS 360
Video: Heading to space
SPONSORED TOPICS
Follow Reuters:
Follow Us On Twitter
Follow Us On Facebook
Follow Us On RSS
Follow Us On Instagram
Follow Us On YouTube
Follow Us On LinkedIn
Subscribe: Feeds | Newsletters | Podcasts | Apps
Reuters News Agency | Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters is the news and media division of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
EIKON
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface
ELEKTRON
Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management
WORLD-CHECK
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks
WESTLAW
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology
ONESOURCE
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
CHECKPOINT
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2016 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
Site Feedback Corrections Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines AdChoices Terms of Use Privacy Policy