http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/innovation/new-privacy-focused-cryptocurrency-zcash-adopted-by-a-host-of-exchanges/
New Privacy-Focused Cryptocurrency Zcash Adopted by a Host of Exchanges | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyInnovationNew Privacy-Focused Cryptocurrency Zcash Adopted by a Host of Exchanges
New Privacy-Focused Cryptocurrency Zcash Adopted by a Host of Exchanges
Bitfinex, Bittrex, Bitnow, Bitsquare, Changelly, HitBTC, Kraken, Poloniex, ShapeShift and YUNBI all now support Zcash trading.
Avi Mizrahi | Innovation (CryptoCurrency) | Tuesday, 01/11/2016|15:50 GMT
2
0
Photo: FM Studio
Zcash, a new privacy-focused cryptocurrency, was only launched on Friday and is already available on a large number of exchanges including:  Bitfinex, Bittrex, Bitnow, Bitsquare, Changelly, HitBTC, Kraken, Poloniex, ShapeShift and YUNBI. Despite being newly released, Zcash has some very well-known stakeholders, including Roger Ver, Barry Seibert and Pantera Capital.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
Although operating as an open source project, Zcash is set up as company which gets 10% of the eventual monetary base. “Zcash is a group of scientists and techies who came up with a way to combine blockchains with data security. These two things are well understood, important, and widely used, but have never been put together before now,” said Zcash CEO Zooko Wilcox, “The launch of the Zash protocol is the first of its kind. It is the accumulation of years of academic research, hard engineering work, and diligent security work.”
The Zcash total coin supply is going to be 21 million, similar to Bitcoin, and the asset follows the same issue rate. However, instead of having 10 minute blocks, ZCash will have a 2.5 minute block average, and the number of ZEC created per Zcash block will be a quarter the number of BTC created per Bitcoin block. It is based on zero-knowledge proofs promising to guarantee better privacy and confidentiality than bitcoin.
Erik Voorhees, CEO, Shapeshift
“Zcash finally fulfills an early promise of Bitcoin technology – the ability to transact freely and privately with anyone in the world,” said ShapeShift founder and CEO Erik Voorhees, “This protects the right to privacy held by all individuals on Earth, and opens up new commercial use cases which were impossible without truly confidential transactions.”
$1 billion market cap?
Paul Clarkson, product manager at HitBTC, commented: “There’s always a particular reason for listing a specific cryptocurrency. In the case of Zcash, the crucial advantage is an outstanding professional dev team and a hefty board of known advisors and investors. Another point is a brand-new cryptographic scheme that significantly differs from existing privacy-centric solutions. Bringing liquidity for innovative technologies is our job, and Zcash certainly deserves attention.”
Clarkson continues: “An ‘open source company’ seems to be a new phenomenon, which is easy to imagine in the world of crypto, though. The open team and famous supporters should have a great positive impact on the Zcash adoption. I believe Zcash can surpass the market capitalization of $1 billion in couple of years from now.”
Anthony Di Iorio, CEO, Decentral
If you want to mine Zcash and hold it in a wallet, Decentral, the creator of the universal blockchain wallet Jaxx, announced today that its Zcash integration is officially complete. Anthony Di Iorio, founder and CEO of Jaxx, said: “There’s a lot of buzz and excitement around Zcash. Our team has worked hard to speed up the integration process, to test it appropriately, and to provide thousands of customers with access to this coin as soon as possible.”
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: Bitcoin derivative / bitcoin-exchange
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
stranger
what is the purpose of zcash if exchangers ask for ID or collect your IP or even use arbitrary system where you must show ID (bitsquare)? and there is no option “coin for cash” in bitsquare, so, all transactions are not anonymous, they have option “cash deposit” but that’s not anonymous.
November 1, 2016 at 5:03 pm 0 0
Luke
stranger, you should read a little more about zcash. It is genuinely, in many ways unbelievably, private. The blockchain does not show where value goes to and comes from when you use a z address (there are also transparent ‘t addresses’ which are visible on the blockchain, but you can easily move coins between the two types). There are no z addresses visible on the blockchain. You can buy coins with your public ID, then use these coins to buy something from a vendor who supports zcash, and no-one would be able to link these two transactions except you.
November 2, 2016 at 3:17 am 0 0
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 9 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 11 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 12 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Siemens to Reform New York's Energy Market with LO3 Blockchain Microgrids
Lykke Unveils a Project Crowdsourcing/Collaboration Platform, Lykke Streams
Goldman Sachs Parts Ways with R3 Consortium to Pursue Independent Research
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions