http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/trading/coinsecure-launches-real-time-bitcoin-trading-app-for-indias-190m-smartphone-users/
Coinsecure Launches Real Time Bitcoin Trading App for India’s 190m Smartphone Users | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyTradingCoinsecure Launches Real Time Bitcoin Trading App for India’s 190m Smartphone Users
Coinsecure Launches Real Time Bitcoin Trading App for India’s 190m Smartphone Users
The app displays live order books and users can place bids and asks, withdraw or deposit funds, and check pending
Avi Mizrahi | Trading (CryptoCurrency) | Thursday, 20/10/2016|08:19 GMT
1
0
Photo: Finance Magnates
Coinsecure, the Indian Bitcoin exchange, merchant services and blockchain developer, today launched its mobile app for real-time Bitcoin trading on the Android system. Coinsecure aims to target India’s huge and ever growing smartphone user base.
Coinsecure, CEO, Mohit Kalra
Coinsecure CEO and founder Mohit Kalra said: “With over 190 million smartphone users in India, putting a technology so disruptive like Bitcoin in their hands is a win – win situation.”
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
The developers say that while the app targets traders, it is also simple and easy for a beginner to use. The app enables users to buy, sell, send, receive and accept Bitcoin with ease. The app also displays live order books. Users can place their bids and asks, withdraw and deposit funds, check pending orders, all with just the click of a button.
“Coinsecure strives to ensure that users can retain a stellar experience across all platforms. Desktop web was our first build. A mobile app for multiple devices is the next step in bringing Bitcoin to India”, said Benson Samuel, CTO and co-founder.
Coinsecure first launched its Bitcoin exchange in January, 2015 with the intent of bringing Bitcoin to India. Coinsecure’s exchange is a real time live spot trading exchange with fully open order books. Coinsecure additionally provides customers with a merchant payment gateway, a variety of wallet services, and a public API. Earlier this year, Coinsecure announced their Series A raise of 1.2 Million USD. Most recently, Coinsecure signed partnerships with BitPay for merchant services and with OKLink for remittance services.
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: Bitcoin Trading / india
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
eric sabourin
This is realy exciting for me to see the third world economy having acces to global trade like that by the phone and bitcoin and chalenge the system that maintain most of them in a state of ignorence and poverty. It will give a chance to the individual to open more economic opportunities at their finger tips . But all that technology needs power and lots of computors, u know. So those 190 millions smart phone users, how are they going to recharge their batteries…In China, smog every where because of coal, how sir Mohit Karla and his people are going to manage the global warming because of the thecnology use…u can’t see across the street in Shangaï… Thanks for this article.
October 20, 2016 at 10:22 pm 0 0
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 7 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 9 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 9 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 9 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Jason Granger and Charlie Shrem Set to Launch Private Equity Investment Fund
Bitcoin Market Cap Above $12 Billion as Price Climbs Back to $750
Bitcoin Price Jumps Over $735 As Donald Trump Wins US Presidency
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions