http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/08/blockchain-startup-loyyal-partakes-dubai-future-accelerators-program/
Blockchain Startup Loyyal Partakes In Dubai Future Accelerators Program
25-11-2016
09:28 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Blockchain Startup Loyyal Partakes In Dubai Future Accelerators Program
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Blockchain Technology, News
52



For Loyyal, participating in the Dubai Future Accelerators program is invaluable. The blockchain startup will work with Dubai Holding, who focus their attention on hospitality and real estate
The name Loyyal may not ring a bell for most blockchain enthusiasts right now. Even though the company is focusing on global loyalty reward schemes, they have been flying under the radar. That was until earlier this week when the company announced they would participate in the Dubai Future Accelerators program. A big step for this blockchain startup, that much is certain.
What is so interesting about this announcement is how Dubai Future Accelerators came to be. This initiative is launched by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum and several other higher-ups. With US$275m in backing for this accelerator, Dubai wants to position itself as a leader in the innovative technology race.
A Big Step Forward For Loyyal
As one would expect, the primary purpose of this accelerator is to identify emerging technologies. Blockchain can address the world’s challenges and hurdles, and provide a much better ecosystem for all. Participants of the Dubai accelerator will receive support to develop prototypes. Assuming these developments are fruitful, deployment of the service across Dubai is on the agenda as well.
For Loyyal, participating in the Dubai Future Accelerators program is invaluable. The blockchain startup will work with Dubai Holding, who focus their attention on hospitality and real estate sectors, among other things. Reducing paperwork and cutting out intermediaries wherever possible is their primary objective. A perfect fit for Loyyal and their blockchain-based development ideas.
Loyyal CEO and Co-Founder Greg Simon told the media:
“Loyyal is humbled and honored to be one of only a handful of technology companies selected for this historic opportunity. This program is unique as the objective to hand-select 31 of the most cutting-edge technology providers from around the world, bring them together to find solutions to specific government challenges, and rapidly deploy those solutions into society. People will be surprised how quickly what now is considered to be far-off futuristic technology will be real, thanks to the vision of the leadership of Dubai and the Future Foundation”.
The participation of the startup in this Accelerators program is not entirely surprising. Loyyal is a member of the Dubai Global Blockchain Council, and they have been working to develop national blockchain-based solutions for tourism. The company uses their own native blockchain for all services and aims to incentivize voluntary behavior. It will be interesting to see what this company plans to develop over the coming years.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
52
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×