http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/06/roger-ver-considers-offering-double-block-rewards-bitcoin-miners/
Roger Ver Considers Offering Double Block Rewards To Bitcoin Miners
25-11-2016
05:59 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Roger Ver Considers Offering Double Block Rewards To Bitcoin Miners
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News, Opinion
53



Mining pool incentives are a double-edged concept, though. Miners are already rewarded for mining on the network, through the block reward.
Quite a few interesting discussions are taking place in the Bitcoin ecosystem right now. Roger Ver, one of the few prominent early Bitcoin adopters, recently issued an interesting statement. He discussing upping the Bitcoin block reward from 12.5 BTC back to 25 BTC, by paying half out of his own pocket. An intriguing marketing idea for Bitcoin Classic, although it raises a fair few questions as well.
To put this news into perspective, it is not possible to increase the current block reward other than by forking the Bitcoin source code. That is not what Roger Ver has planned for Bitcoin Classic mining, though. In fact, it remains unclear if he plans to go ahead with this “increased block reward’ idea to begin with.
Roger Ver Discusses A Potentially Bold Plan
That being said, it is interesting to see someone mention how they want to reward miners for mining a specific cryptocurrency. There is a significant debate between Bitcoin Core, Classic, and Unlimited developers right now. All solutions want to address scalability in different ways. However, it is up to individual miners to support the solution they prefer.
One way to sway some miners’ minds is by offering increased mining rewards. Roger Ver mentioned how he “could” double, or even triple, the regular 12.5 BTC reward. While this may not be a viable long-term plan, it is an interesting train of thought for sure. He also clarified how this is not the same as buying hashpower, but rather a way to buy extra Bitcoins and give those back to the community.
Roger Ver admits he will put money from his pocket to buy hashrate for his pool
Bitcoin. pic.twitter.com/2Wi0koIkgQ
— Gonzo (@gonzoucab) November 2, 2016
Mining pool incentives are a double-edged concept, though. Miners are already rewarded for mining on the network, through the block reward. Adding an extra incentive seems a bit over the top right now. It is not forbidden or immoral to do so, though, but it is not sustainable for a very long time by any means.
Incentivizing Bitcoin miners to further decentralize mining is an option worth exploring. While a doubling or tripling of the block reward may be a stretch too far, some form of incentive could be introduced. Given the group effort involved in the pool mining process, a lot of people would get a small extra reward for their efforts.
In the end, it all comes down to finally addressing Bitcoin scalability. Roger Ver has an idea that could be considered to be controversial. But it takes some out-of-the-box thinking to put these discussions to rest once and for all. It will be interesting to see if this idea comes to fruition in the end.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
53
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×