http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/17/dubai-host-bitcoin-regulation-workshop-november-20/
Dubai To Host A Bitcoin Regulation Workshop On November 20
25-11-2016
05:41 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Dubai To Host A Bitcoin Regulation Workshop On November 20
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News, Regulation
35



Knowledge and information are the two key elements to establish a fruitful regulatory ecosystem.
Bitcoin is slowly starting to make headway in Dubai. The Supreme Legislation Committee will discuss the current and future regulation of Bitcoin shortly. This increased focus on cryptocurrency is seen as a positive note, indicating Dubai sees potential in Bitcoin. The Virtual Currency: Fact and Law workshop will take place on November 20.
Whenever regulation and Bitcoin are mentioned in the same breath, there is cause for concern. Over the years, any country or city looking into cryptocurrency regulation has somehow made a mess of things. But that was to be expected, as governments want to nip innovation they can’t control in the bud.
A Welcome Turn of Events For Bitcoin in Dubai
Things are a bit different in Dubai, as there is no specific legal framework for Bitcoin yet. Both the Dubai Electronic Security Center and The Supreme Legislation Committee will host a workshop to discuss the future of cryptocurrency. For now, this appears to be an open-minded point of discussion, which is a positive sign.
Supreme Legislation Committee secretary general Ahmad bin Meshar Al Muhairi stated:
“The move is part of our continuing efforts to build a legal knowledge base in line with our strategic objectives in strengthening the legal system and developing the legislative process to achieve the objective and realistic requirements for drafting leading legislation that simulates reality and outlooks the future.”
Dubai is keeping a close eye on financial developments in the 21st century. At the same time, the city acknowledges the need for a framework detailing legal obligations, duties, and rights. This workshop will also focus on raising cryptocurrency awareness and enriching knowledge.
Bitcoin is very different from any currency Dubai has dealt with before. Without central authority or regulation, government officials need to be educated on how Bitcoin can be used in an optimal setting. What is rather interesting, is how officials seem to agree on Bitcoin is “officially recognised worldwide.”
Knowledge and information are the two key elements to establish a productive regulatory ecosystem. Bitcoin and cryptocurrency remain novel trends, with lots of potential for growth and innovation. If all of Dubai’s competent authorities see eye-to-eye regarding Bitcoin, things could get very interesting in the coming years.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
35
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.