http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/09/european-commission-leans-toward-regulating-iot-devices/
European Commission Leans Toward Regulating IoT Devices
25-11-2016
08:30 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
European Commission Leans Toward Regulating IoT Devices
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
News, Opinion
61



This is also good news for Bitcoin users who rely on an IoT device to store funds. After all, there is little point in trusting a device that can be hacked with little to no effort.
The Internet of Things is a very important initiative that brings a set of new problems to the table. The European Commission decided to address this issue by issuing new security rules. It was only a matter of time until specific guidelines were proposed for the IoT industry. At the same time, these new regulations are part of overhauling the European Union’ telecom laws as a whole.
The official wording used by the European Commission leaves much to speculation. They talk about ‘approved and secure” devices connected to the Internet, and how enterprises need to label these systems. A template of sorts will need to be created, similarly to how appliances are now rated based on their energy consumption.
It is not surprising these new rules are being introduced right now. Mirai, a very powerful malware infected IoT devices all over the world, is becoming a significant threat. Even though law enforcement officials managed to deal a blow to this malware, it is likely similar toolkits will pop up in the coming months.
Government Intervention For IoT May Not Be The Right Call
Most of the Internet-connected devices in circulation right now still use a default username and password. This makes them prime targets for Internet criminals, as it is very easy to bypass any security. Mainly IP cameras, DVRs, and other similar products are being targeted during these attacks Even though such devices are not powerful, hacking a few hundreds of them can be used to execute DDoS attacks.
Changing the username and password is not always the right course of action either. Most owners would do so through the machines web interface which remains vulnerable to attack. There is no standard for secure password changes with most Internet-connected devices.
Now that the European Commission is planning to address the situation, additional security can be achieved. This is also good news for Bitcoin users who rely on an IoT device to store funds. After all, there is little point in trusting a device that can be hacked with little to no effort. Then again, it also seems the European Commission wants to restrict which devices can connect to the Internet in an official capacity.
Some people are questioning what the use of government intervention in IoT will be. There is no need to rely on archaic procedures to create a more connected world. At the same time, security remains a critical flaw for most companies in the IoT sector today. Exciting times seem ahead, but only time will tell if this is the right approach.
Source: Euractive
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
61
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×