http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/18/newly-released-emails-suggest-hillary-open-digital-currency/
Newly Released Emails Suggest Hillary's Campaign Team is Open to Digital Currency - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:47 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Newly Released Emails Suggest Hillary’s Campaign Team is Open to Digital Currency
Author
Nick Marinoff
Categories
Altcoins, Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
36



New emails published on WikiLeaks suggest that Hillary’s campaign team is open to digital currency fundraising.
For several years, the idea of cryptocurrency donations for political campaigns has been a hot topic amongst the FEC and enthusiasts everywhere, while Republican candidates have already engaged in regular use. Last year, Kentucky Senator Rand Paul made history when he consented to bitcoin donations of up to $100 towards his campaign, one of the first major political players to make such a move. Despite mixed reactions, Los Angeles lawyer and cryptocurrency supporter Brian Klein was particularly encouraging to Paul, saying that bitcoin was part of a new wave of technical innovation that would eventually become the norm:
“He’s at the forefront of a tech revolution, like the first candidates to have websites. I bet other presidential candidates will follow his lead, and soon. I also believe in a year or two, this won’t be a story because every candidate will accept Bitcoins – just like every candidate has a website.”
In the published emails, the “crypto-object” of Hillary’s affection appears to be Ven, a global cryptocurrency managed by the Hub Culture network. The messages discuss potentially using the currency to enable “single click micro-payments” for those wishing to donate funds to the former Secretary of State’s campaign. While Republicans are advocating bitcoin and its uses, Ven appears to be at the center of the liberal race, as the messages claim it holds an array of “environmental benefits.” It’s also mentioned that the FEC “has indicated that digital currencies are acceptable for donations in campaigns.”
While Hillary may be looking to use digital currency, Juniper Research says that a Trump-headed presidency is what bitcoin needs to thrive in American society. The organization explains that bitcoin will become particularly popular should Trump’s infamous wall be fully constructed, which may cause an increase in remittance activity between the U.S. and Mexico.
36
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×