http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/01/zcash-giving-investors-mixed-signals/
Is Zcash Giving Investors Mixed Signals? - NEWSBTC
26-11-2016
01:44 am
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Is Zcash Giving Investors Mixed Signals?
Author
Nick Marinoff
Categories
Altcoins, Bitcoin, News
80



Zcash has been giving investors some relatively mixed signals, making crypto-enthusiasts a little unsure of where they stand.
Following the digital currency’s recent launch, trading on Poloniex shot to explosive records, and the price of Zcash reached approximately $2 million per coin, an incredible improvement over the mere $1,000 investors were paying near the beginning.
Matthew Green, an assistant professor at Johns Hopkins University who began working on Zcash three years ago, explained some of the motivation behind the cryptocurrency’s birth:
“The basic story is that we have been gradually losing our privacy in a whole bunch of ways that people don’t appreciate… This brings back a little bit of that privacy that computers have taken away from us. This technology gives us a defense against something that until now, we have been defenseless against.”
Zcash claims to offer the privacy that most cryptocurrency traders wish to attain, yet can’t, through bitcoin. Green continued on to say:
“You are going around on the Bitcoin blockchain leaving a trail of everything you do, which will last forever… The idea of Zcash is you don’t have to go to special lengths to achieve privacy – privacy is baked into the system.”
The coin’s launch was enough to make any fan break out the champagne; exchanges ranging from Kraken to Bitfinex inherently added the coin to their platforms, although some analysts are now attributing the coin’s recent (and massive) jolt to a platform error that potentially added a few extra zeroes to the currency’s end, which clearly doesn’t look very good for privacy. How safe can someone be if an error of this magnitude can strike at any moment?
Furthermore, in a recent report, it appears Zcash is actually falling, and has allegedly dropped by over 50 percent within the last two days. Despite the hype and hoopla surrounding its release, many are still looking to Monero to get the job of “anonymous trading” done appropriately.
80
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×