http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/05/free-falling-bolivar-increases-demand-bitcoin-venezuela/
Free Falling Bolivar Increases Demand for Bitcoin in Venezuela - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
09:05 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Free Falling Bolivar Increases Demand for Bitcoin in Venezuela
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News
275



As Venezuela's fiat -- bolivar continues to collapse, the citizens are looking for alternative options including Bitcoin to protect their earnings from turning worthless. Read more...
Bitcoin, the popular digital currency had a few great weeks on the market as its price surged from mid $600s to over $700. The increase attributed to increasing demand from the Chinese market saw an abrupt end after unconfirmed reports stated that the Chinese government will soon be implementing measures to prevent capital flows in the form of Bitcoin or other digital currencies.
With Bitcoin price currently staying a bit under the $700 mark, the digital currency may soon find itself in a favorable spot, thanks to the Latin American nation of Venezuela. The speculation of another round of price rise is based on the current economic situation in the country and Latin America overall. The currency of Venezuela, bolivar has lost most part of its value in the past few months. As the economy weakens, bolivar is now trading at almost 50% less against US dollar compared to the beginning of this year.
With no immediate improvement in sight, Venezuelans are increasingly finding ways to convert their earnings from bolivar to other currencies, which includes US dollar and Bitcoin. Latest reports indicate an increasing demand for Bitcoin among those living in Venezuela. Local Bitcoins, the peer-to-peer bitcoin exchange marketplace has seen a major spike in trade since the past few months.
For a country that is still new to Bitcoin, the trade volumes which used to be in terms of less than hundred Bitcoin a week during the same time last year now stands at around 400 BTCs a week. Even though the demand is too negligible at the moment to significantly affect the market rate, it is still a good start. With more people getting familiar with the digital currencies, the trade volumes many soon increase in the near future.
It is not just Venezuela which is seeing the trend, similar to that in China. Investors from other Latin American nations including Chile and Argentina are also following suit. The demand for Bitcoin in the immediate future is also expected to go up in England and the United States as the former reels under the uncertainty created by Brexit and the latter troubled by presidential elections.
Ref: QZ | NYT Image: Shutterstock 
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.