http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/11/play-simplest-profitable-casino-games-bitcoin-games/
Play the simplest and most profitable Casino Games in Bitcoin Games - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
06:16 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Play the simplest and most profitable Casino Games in Bitcoin Games
Author
Nuno Menezes
Categories
Sponsored Stories



Bitcoin Games is part of Bitcoin.com multiplatform. It is a casino offering the simplest and most profitable traditional games in the Bitcoin gambling industry.
Bitcoin Games is part of Bitcoin.com multiplatform. It is a casino offering the simplest and most profitable traditional games in the Bitcoin gambling industry.
In Bitcoin Games, you can play with confidence! It is guaranteed that every game you play at Bitcoin Games is completely fair. Instead of just taking the company’s word for it, Bitcoin Games makes available all of the information you need to verify that they offer a fair game.
The reason that the company can guarantee this is that your web browser supplies a random number that we must incorporate into the random number generator in a provably consistent way. Since Bitcoin Games servers do not know what random number your computer will send, the company has no way of knowing how the shuffle will look in the end. So, that’s one thing that the company cannot effectively control, giving it a trusted environment where players can feel comfortable.
To manually verify a game that has been played, all players need to do is tap the green verify button in the MY GAMES table after a game has been played.
Now Bitcoin Games has increased the platform security by supporting Two-Factor authentication (2FA). The largest house edge in all of our games is only 0.5% (half of a percent). This is better than any casino in Vegas by far.
The current house edge for all games is:
Video Poker – 0.25%
Blackjack – 0.4%
Roulette – 1%
Craps – 0.2%
Keno – 1%
Slots – 1%
Dice – 0.75%
Recently, an anonymous player just hit a 16.57 BTC jackpot in Bitcoin Games. Bitcoin Games is where you can find the simplest and most profitable casino games in the Bitcoin gambling industry. Sign up for Bitcoin games right now and it even might be who wins the next big Jackpot.
Source & Image
The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of the author, Forex Minute or any of its team members. Forex Minute is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories such as this one.
  Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
PUBLISHED BY
Nuno Menezes
Nuno Menezes is a Portuguese Bitcoin Entrepreneur and a crypto currency’s enthusiast supporting the Bitcoin Portuguese Community. He is an Anthropologist and a Writer and his current field of work is virtual currencies. Complementing his Social Sciences Master degree with a Professional background in telecommunications along some experience in Computer Science, he intends to bring knowledge and understanding about the impact of crypto currencies in society. View all posts by Nuno Menezes
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.