http://www.businessinsider.com.au/the-commonwealth-bank-just-used-blockchain-in-a-world-first-global-transaction-2016-10
The Commonwealth Bank just used blockchain in a 'world first' global transaction | Business Insider
Log In
×
Remember Me
Forgotten password?
Join Log In
Tech
Money & Markets
Briefing
Ideas
Executive Life
Video
MONEY & MARKETS
The Commonwealth Bank just used blockchain in a 'world first' global transaction
CHRIS PASH
OCT 24, 2016, 9:29 AM
A Chinese worker checking a machine making blankets. STR/AFP/Getty Images
Blockchain, the technology behind digital currency bitcoin and now being used to simplify secure financial transactions, has been applied for the first time in a deal facilitated by an Australian bank to sell cotton to China.
The Commonwealth Bank and Wells Fargo used blockchain in what they say is a world first global trade transaction between independent banks for a shipment of cotton from Texas to Qingdao in China.
The trade involved an open account transaction, mirroring a traditional bank letter of credit, between the seller (Brighann Cotton of the US), the buyer (Brighann Cotton Marketing Australia), and their banks (Wells Fargo and Commonwealth Bank).
A letter of credit is a guarantee from a bank that a seller will receive payment from a buyer once certain conditions are met, such as proof that they have shipped the goods.
Commonwealth Bank says the use of blockchain technology, smart contracts and the Internet of Things creates greater transparency between buyer and seller, a higher level of security and the ability to track a shipment in real-time.
Michael Eidel, executive general manager of the Commonwealth Bank’s cash-flow and transaction services, says existing trade finance processes are ripe for disruption.
“This proof of concept demonstrates how companies around the world could benefit from these (blockchain, smart contract, Internet of Things) emerging technologies,” he says.
“We strive to stay at the forefront of disruptive technologies to understand how they can be used to enable greater efficiencies and solve the real world challenges our customers face.
“The interplay between blockchain, smart contracts and the Internet of Things is a significant development towards revolutionising trade transactions that could deliver considerable benefits throughout the global supply chain.”
Cameron Austin, general manager of Brighann Marketing, says the combination of emerging technologies could eliminate many inefficiencies in international trade.
“The benefits of lower costs and improvements to security through reduction of errors, risk and time, enable a company to achieve greater efficiency and have more predictable working capital,” he says.
Chris Lewis, head of international trade services for Wells Fargo, says there are still significant regulatory, legal and other concerns to be addressed with the technology.
However, he says Wells Fargo is committed to exploring these emerging technologies.
“In this case, we demonstrated how a new approach to trade could benefit a joint Wells Fargo and Commonwealth Bank customer, Brighann Cotton,” he says.
“This marks another step in evaluating technology that, over time, could support the evolution of trade finance.”
Blockchain is technology created by the founder bitcoin, a person of persons still unknown.
The key to blockchain is a digital ledger that can only be changed if all parties — such as the buyer, seller and the banks in the Commonwealth’s transaction — agree.
So instead of everyone keeping their own spreadsheets, blockchain is a secure way for all to keep track of a sale.
Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn
Tagged In
australian stories blockchain cba commonwealth bank wells fargo
Sponsored Links 
Watch: An Amazing 360 Experience Of Abu Dhabi's Sights And Sounds
CNN for Abu Dhabi Tourism
L'Oreal-Proactive On Income Protection For Their Employees
Financial Times
Are you ready to conquer Ancient Greece? Already 35 million players!
Grepolis - Online Free Game
This game will keep you up all night!
Stormfall: Free Online Game
  by Taboola 
Promoted Links
Five startups owned by the Trump family
Watch this A380 pilot manage a wild crosswind by flying the plane practically sideways onto the runway
by Taboola
Discuss
Be the first to comment on this story!
Log In
Join
Guest Comment
Business Insider Australia
Contact Editor
Got A Story Tip?
Report Issue
Business Insider Emails & Alerts
Site highlights each day to your inbox.
Email Address
Join
Promoted Links 
You May Like
Watch: An Amazing 360 Experience Of Abu Dhabi's Sights And Sounds
CNN for Abu Dhabi Tourism
Five startups owned by the Trump family
L'Oreal-Proactive On Income Protection For Their Employees
Financial Times
Watch this A380 pilot manage a wild crosswind by flying the plane practically sideways onto the runway
  by Taboola 
Watch & Learn
Every man should know what 'genuine leather' actually is before buying a belt
We did a blind taste test of wings from Pizza Hut, Domino's, Papa John's, and Buffalo Wild Wings -- the winner was clear
The three best holiday gifts for a wine lover -- according to a top sommelier
A financial expert reveals the biggest money mistake a couple can make
Your Money
S&P 500 2,213 +8.63 (+0.391%)
Nikkei 225 18,381 +47.81 (+0.261%)
S&P/ASX 200 5,508 +22.70 (+0.414%)
Popular on Facebook
MAP: What Every Country Leads The World In
The 10 best new restaurants in Melbourne in 2016
ANZ and Macquarie Bank face millions in fines over claims of cartel behaviour by currency traders
No, Instagram hasn't started sending people notifications when you screenshot their public photos
Popular on LinkedIn
18 annoying things job candidates do that make hiring managers not like them
An ill-informed salesperson sent this email pitch to Amazon's CTO
12 things successful people do in the last 10 minutes of the workday
11 things you say that can kill your job interview instantly
POPULAR
One of Brisbane's greatest restaurants is closing after 17 years
Great Sci-Fi Movies You May Have Missed In 2016 (But Shouldn't Have)
EB Games Is Selling The Steam Controller And Steam Link
The Difference Between Splenda, Equal And Stevia
BI Intelligence
About
Advertise
Contact
Terms of Use
Business Insider International