http://www.coindesk.com/veteran-bitcoin-legal-strategist-joins-trump-transition-firm/
Veteran Bitcoin Legal Strategist Joins Firm Hosting Trump Transition Meetings - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$730
$734
$738
USD -0.14%
$737.23
CNY 0.16%
¥5,193.07
EUR €695.87
GBP £590.63
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
BITLICENSE  •  REGULATION
Veteran Bitcoin Legal Strategist Joins Firm Hosting Trump Transition Meetings
Michael del Castillo (@DelRayMan) | Published on November 9, 2016 at 18:40 GMT
NEWS
277
49
14
Veteran bitcoin lawyer Carol Van Cleef has a new job.
The former partner at Manatt, Phelps & Phillips started her new position at Baker Hostetler earlier this month.
While Van Cleef will continue her previous focus working with bank compliance issues and cryptocurrency, she tells CoinDesk her new employer has hosted several meetings with people helping US President-elect Donald Trump transition to power.
Van Cleef explained the nature of her new position to CoinDesk:
"I'll be heading the FinTech practice and continue to have a huge focus on virtual currencies and blockchain technology."
Van Cleef began her new job on 1st November, after spending almost three years at Manatt. Previously, she founded anti-money laundering and OFAC compliance trading firm, Comptegrity, for which she still serves as chairman.
Over the past year, she has also helped develop the Uniform Law Commission's efforts to draft a legal framework for virtual currencies, and earlier this month she was one of 50 attorneys to join launch the Digital Currency and Ledger Defense Coalition.
At Manatt, her compliance practice had focused largely on helping companies understand the USA Patriot Act, BSA and OFAC regulations.
BakerHostetler was founded in 1916, and currently employs about 900 partners and associates. The firm specializes in litigation, business, employment, intellectual property and tax law.
According to an Intercept report yesterday, the firm had hosted "regular" meetings of Trump for America Inc, a non-profit group chaired by New Jersey governor Chris Christie, as part of an effort to help oversee the Trump transition.
An earlier version of this article based on the conversation with Van Cleef reported that Baker Hostetler was representing Trump's transition team. A representative of the company called CoinDesk to clarify, "We’re not representing the transition team."
Image via CoinDesk
Donald TrumpPoliticsRegulation
277
49
14
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Alleged Bitcoin Scammer Busted By Dubai Police
NEXT ARTICLE
Former Estonian President to Lead World Economic Forum...
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
OPINION
Nov 20, 2016 at 14:53 | Josh Stark
Making Sense of Blockchain Governance Applications
Ledger Labs' Josh Stark seeks to provide a high-level framework for understanding the potential of nascent blockchain governance applications.
NEWS
Nov 18, 2016 at 18:55 | Stan Higgins
The IRS is Seeking Data on Coinbase's Bitcoin Customers
The IRS is seeking user records from Coinbase as part of a taxpayer investigation.
FEATURE
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:00 | Michael del Castillo
The Swiss Government is Paving the Way for Crypto Banks
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
FEATURE
Nov 17, 2016 at 13:30 | Michael del Castillo
How the SEC's Blockchain Lead is Defining Future Regulation
CoinDesk spotlights ongoing efforts inside the top securities regulator in the US to better understand – and adapt to – advances in blockchain…
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.