http://www.coindesk.com/viabtc-ceo-sparks-bitcoin-scaling-debate-reddit-ama/
ViaBTC Sparks Bitcoin Scaling Debate in Reddit AMA - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$730
$734
$739
USD -0.16%
$737.13
CNY 0.18%
¥5,194.00
EUR €695.78
GBP £590.54
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
NEWS  •  TECHNOLOGY
ViaBTC Sparks Bitcoin Scaling Debate in Reddit AMA
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 17, 2016 at 20:05 GMT
NEWS
188
10
26
The head of a bitcoin mining pool that has emerged as a strong advocate for a bigger block size argued in a Reddit Q&A today that many in China's mining community support such a move.
ViaBTC founder Haipo Yang took questions during an Ask Me Anything (AMA) session on the r/btc subreddit, commenting on the block size debate.
The event saw strong advocacy for Bitcoin Unlimited, a bitcoin software implementation that has been proposed as an alternative to Bitcoin Core, the primary user client for the bitcoin network. ViaBTC was launched in June of this year (and quickly emerged as controversial).
The AMA session came amid the ongoing rollout of Segregated Witness, a change to bitcoin's code aimed at increasing the amount of transactions the network can handle without adjusting the block size. Yet the upgrade has proven to be a controversial one among some bitcoin users, who have argued that an increase in the block size – or a variable size with Unlimited – is the better approach.
Yang claimed in the session that, as it stands, China’s mining community wants a bigger block size, but isn't unified in its support for Unlimited specifically.
He wrote:
"Most pools in China have lost their trust in Core and shifted their attention to Unlimited. I know a couple of pools said in private that they won't support [Segregated Witness] and will support Unlimited instead. The reason that they haven't shifted to BU is that they are waiting for a better chance and also a possible compromise from Core."
Elsewhere, Yang framed the current debate as "a battle about Bitcoin’s future path", invoking bitcoin’s pseudonymous creator, Satoshi Nakamoto and arguing that Unlimited's approach is more in line with the initial vision of the digital currency.
While the thread largely drew supporters, critics emerged.
One notable inclusion was Blockstream CEO Adam Back, who wrote that Unlimited "is non-functional" and "little tested", among other critiques.
"I’ve already clearly stated my view: the protocol is more important than the code," Yang wrote in response. "We've been running Bitcoin Unlimited for more than a month with no problems."
The push for bigger blocks within China's mining community was also on display during a recent event hosted by bitcoin mining firm Bitmain. This development has largely continued despite the protests of Bitcoin Core and its supporters, who maintain alternatives would be dangerous if more widely used.
Image via Shutterstock
Bitcoin UnlimitedBlock SizeMiningReddit
188
10
26
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Dubai Legislators to Discuss Bitcoin Regulation
NEXT ARTICLE
Blockchain Property Rights Startup Bitmark Raises $1.7...
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
NEWS
Nov 11, 2016 at 17:45 | Stan Higgins
One in Four Bitcoin Nodes Are Now Upgraded for SegWit
Bitcoin network data shows that 25 percent of nodes worldwide are signaling support for Segregated Witness.
FEATURE
Nov 6, 2016 at 14:25 | Eric Mu
China's Bitcoin Miners See Profit in a Bigger-Block Blockchain
A bitcoin mining conference held by one of the network's largest miners saw what some have labeled an unscientific discussion of scaling the network.
FEATURE
Oct 29, 2016 at 15:02 | Alyssa Hertig
Bitcoin's Block Size Debate is Back (And It Might Be Worse Than Ever)
With little likelihood of a single scaling solution that will please everyone, is a hard fork inevitable?
FEATURE
Oct 26, 2016 at 18:35 | Alyssa Hertig
A Lower Block Time Could Help Bitcoin Scale, But Will It Work?
A small tweak to bitcoin could have a big impact.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 91 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.