http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/16/mpney-2020-future-of-payments/
Money 2020 to Chart the Future Path for Payments Industry - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:49 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Money 2020 to Chart the Future Path for Payments Industry
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
100



Money 2020 to focus on blockchain technology, fintech and related regulatory aspects.Read more...
Money 2020, one of the leading financial and payments conference is preparing for its 2016 edition, scheduled for October 23-26. The event happening at the Venetian in Las Vegas focuses on blockchain technology, fintech, and related regulatory aspects.
With most of the sessions and speakers already confirmed, the Money 20/20 conference has some of the well-known names from the cryptocurrency industry associated with it. Among the speakers are Brian Armstrong from Coinbase, John Beccia from Circle, Perianne Boring from the Chamber of Digital Commerce, Vitalik Buterin from Ethereum Foundation, Chris Church from Digital Asset holdings, Jacob Farber from R3CEV, Peter Kirby from Factom, Bobby Lee from BTCC, Jed McCaleb from Stellar and more.
As conventional banking and financial institutions continue to explore the use of blockchain technology in their operations, this event will bring both cryptocurrency and mainstream financial industries together. The main focus of this year’s Money 2020 event will be on regulations and innovation in fintech sector, which includes Bitcoin, blockchain technology, and cryptocurrency regulations.
The payments industry has been one of the fastest growing industry sectors in the past few years. Even before Bitcoin payments picked up, electronic payments involving cards, mobile payments, NFC-based contactless payments and others have been gaining traction. The upcoming conference will be instrumental in setting the pace for the future of payments industry.
According to reports, the Money 2020 event will also focus on making the existing payments options more attractive for merchants by combining loyalty programs and features. It may also include possible collaborations between mobile services providers and financial institutions for effective sharing of user data, which can be used to provide customized offerings for the customers for better conversion.
Cryptocurrencies have already carved a position for themselves in the payments industry. With increasing adoption, mainstream payment solutions providers have started to include Bitcoin support alongside their regular fiat payments offerings. The same trend is expected to continue even after the Money 2020 conference.
Ref: Recode | Money 2020 | Image: Good Data
99
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×