http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/05/total-bitcoin-transaction-volume-surpassed-us100bn-september/
Total Bitcoin Transaction Volume Surpassed US$100bn in September
25-11-2016
05:08 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Total Bitcoin Transaction Volume Surpassed US$100bn in September
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News



It is remarkable to see how far Bitcoin has come along compared to eight years ago.
People seem to collect all kinds of statistics related to the Bitcoin protocol. Interestingly enough, one of the currency’s largest milestones was overlooked by just about everyone. On September 2nd, 2016, the Bitcoin blockchain surpassed the S$100bn mark in Bitcoin volume transferred since its inception. Quite an achievement for this “niche market,” and hopefully, a sign of better things to come.
Statistics like these always have to be taken with a slight grain of salt, though. Granted, the Bitcoin protocol did indeed surpass US$100bn in transaction volume. However, a fair amount of those transfers come from change addresses, which somehow skews the numbers a bit. Then again, it is still a magnificent feat for a currency very few people give a chance at success.
A Major Milestone For Transacted Bitcoin Volume
At the same time, there is also the question of how much of this transaction volume is “legitimate”. In saying so, we refer to how much funds belongs to users sending their own resources to different addresses. All of these things have to be taken into consideration when looking at the bigger picture.
If there is one positive thing about the Bitcoin network spam in recent months, it is how it helped achieve this milestone. All of those pesky small transactions added up to a portion of the US$100bn milestone. Very few people will see things that way, though, as network congestion is a major pain in the neck to deal with.
Despite reaching this Bitcoin volume milestone, the majority of coin owners are still holders. Spending cryptocurrency for goods and services has become more common, but it represents a minority of all transactions. A lot of investors see Bitcoin as an investment vehicle, and they hold on to funds as long as possible. That is not a bad thing, but if they were active users, the numbers would be much higher by now.
It is remarkable to see how far Bitcoin has come along compared to eight years ago.What started out as an idea greeted with dismay turned into a global powerhouse. Although Bitcoin adoption is still lackluster on a global scale, things are slowly evolving in a positive direction. Rome wasn’t built in one day either, nor were the roads that lead there.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.