http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/interview/dashs-amanda-b-johnson-explains-all-the-hype-behind-zcash/
Dash’s Amanda B. Johnson Explains All the Hype Behind Zcash | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyInterviewsDash’s Amanda B. Johnson Explains All the Hype Behind Zcash
Dash’s Amanda B. Johnson Explains All the Hype Behind Zcash
Bitcoin alternatives are nothing new so how come Zcash is getting so much support straight out of the gate?
Avi Mizrahi | Interviews (CryptoCurrency) | Thursday, 03/11/2016|10:07 GMT
0
0
Photo: Amanda B. Johnson
Zcash is a new privacy-focused cryptocurrency that is getting a lot of positive feedback and coverage recently despite just being launched. We asked Dash advocate, cryptocurrency educator and video blogger Amanda B. Johnson for her take on the matter.
Take the lead from today’s leaders. FM London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
“If Bitcoin were Zcash’s only competition, there’d be no question that it should be considered — at least in theory — superior. It has more processing capacity. It has the ability to encrypt transaction details for privacy. It pays for its own development for the first four years.
However, there are several cryptocurrencies which have these same advantages over Bitcoin, so those basic improvements can’t be the reason for the hype. The buzz is more likely due to the type of people who are currently willing to purchase cryptocurrency.
The first type is very keen to be considered an “early adopter”, so he tends to think that newer is automatically better. It’s a status thing, to be seen as cutting-edge.
Second is the person who doesn’t care to look into cryptocurrency fundamentals — he just wants to make a profit trading. Because he doesn’t study fundamentals, he looks to authority figures to tell him what to buy. Many big names within the cryptosphere — business leaders, thought leaders — have publicly put their name on Zcash, which achieves this end.
With these two investor types already willing to buy, that only leaves the public awareness hurdle to jump. Zcash investor Barry Silbert’s ‘Digital Currency Group’ conveniently owns cryptocurrency’s most-read news source, CoinDesk, which began writing favorably about Zcash before the network even launched. So, these factors seem to be the primary contributors to the hype.”
Watch Amanda’s video for more Dash vs Zcash comparison from her perspective.
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: dash
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 9 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 12 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 12 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
The IRS Must Adapt to Cryptocurrency Not Accuse Bitcoin Users of Tax Avoidance
As Morgan Stanley Leaves R3 Questions Arise about its Value and Commerciality
The Government of India Should Support Bitcoin to Create a Cashless Society
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions