http://www.benzinga.com/pressreleases/16/10/p8546382/thminers-launches-powerful-cryptocurrency-miners-for-bitcoin-and-liteco
THMiners Launches Powerful Cryptocurrency Miners for Bitcoin and Litecoin | Benzinga
Benzinga
Benzinga Pro
Marketfy
Financial Data & APIs
Fintech Awards
Contribute
Login
Sign Up
Benzinga - Feed Your Mind.
Home
News
Markets
Ratings
Ideas
Tech
Fintech
Personal Finance
Premium Products
My Watchlist

QQQ
118.80
+0.38
+0.32%
DIA
191.30
+0.71
+0.37%
SPY
221.52
+0.82
+0.37%
TLT
120.82
+0.18
+0.15%
GLD
112.61
-0.64
-0.57%

THMiners Launches Powerful Cryptocurrency Miners for Bitcoin and Litecoin
PRWeb   FOLLOW
October 10, 2016 11:14am   Comments
Share
Tweet
Share
+1
Email
THMiners Inc. ( http://www.THMiners.com ) has announced the launch of two powerful miners for leading cryptocurrencies bitcoin and litecoin, allowing users to easily process transactions and track the release of new digital coins.
(PRWEB) October 10, 2016
THMiners Inc. ( http://www.THMiners.com ) has announced the launch of two powerful miners for leading cryptocurrencies bitcoin and litecoin, allowing users to easily process transactions and track the release of new digital coins.
Bitcoin has risen dramatically in value in recent times after being worth relatively little when it first emerged only a few short years ago. One bitcoin is currently worth in the region of 600 to the US dollar while for litecoin, the valuation as of now is a more modest $3.80 per greenback.
The cybercurrencies are increasingly being seen – among financial institutions, retailers and growing numbers of the public – as being viable alternatives to real-world money that is often prone to political, socio-economic and other shocks that can suddenly cause its value to come crashing down, a scenario repeatedly seen in countries around the world that are hit by crises.
THMiners is comprised of specialists with many years' experience in bitcoin hardware as well as litecoin hardware and has developed the ultrafast Bitcoin Miner 60TH/s, which retails at $3,000 and comes with all the necessary equipment – from casing to control unit and cabling – so that it's easy to set up.
The company's Litecoin Miner 1200MH/s also costs $3,000 and can mine other cryptocurrencies too. Top-quality materials and components have been used in the manufacture of these digital-currency miners, and they are guaranteed to deliver long-life service, with the company – which only accepts payment in bitcoin – providing an extended warranty of 5 years to cover any kind of failure.
Both miners have been fully tested at multiple stages following manufacture to make sure they perform to the highest of standards, and free shipping is offered to anywhere in the world, via FedEx or UPS courier services.
THMiners was established with the aim of providing high-tech solutions that would enable profitable mining of crytocurrencies, and has developed its own unique components that are not sourced from third parties. The company's hardware, including the chips that run the miners, is manufactured at partner facilities in Asia, which gives THMiners a significant cost advantage it is able to pass on to its customers.
A spokesperson for THMiners said they were delighted to make their bitcoin miners and litecoin miners available to people everywhere, letting them make the most out of the digital currency revolution.
"We believe that our products will have a high impact on the market, and we're pleased to now make our first two miners available to customers around the world who want to get into the exciting area of cybercurrencies," said David Treeman, the CEO of THMiners.
To discover more about THMiners and its world-class cybercurrency miners, visit http://THMiners.com
For the original version on PRWeb visit: http://www.prweb.com/releases/2016/10/prweb13751394.htm
View Comments and Join the Discussion!
  Trending
Recent
1 PER, JUNO: 20 Stocks Moving In Friday's Pre-Market Session
2 DE, LLY: Must Watch Stocks for November 25, 2016
3 CXRX: Concordia Healthcare Bondholder Calls For Immediate Changes,...
4 MT, WEN: Benzinga's Top Upgrades
5 QUNR, CTRP: Brean Gives 3 Reasons To Buy Ctrip
6 SKX, FL: The Hottest Shoe Stock May Surprise You
7 BYD, WDC: Watch These 5 Huge Call Purc...
View upcoming Earnings, Ratings, Dividend and Economic Calendars.
Saudi Arabia Is Willing To Crash Oil Prices
Concerns Grow As Jill Stein Is Tinkering With The Fine Print Of Her...
Putin speaks the truth and shames the devil: 'Russian border ends n...
Megyn Kelly Describes How Roger Ailes Harassed Her: It's Nasty
Ann Coulter: It's 1928 All Over Again!
Trump Just Laid The Groundwork For Corruption By Declaring Himself ...
Benzinga is a fast-growing, dynamic and innovative financial media outlet that empowers investors with high-quality, unique content.
Popular Channels
Analyst Ratings
Be Your Own Boss
ETFs
Economics
Forex
Hot
News
Options
Press Releases
Start-ups
Tech
Tools & Features
Affiliate Program
Feeds
News Widget
Real Time Feed
Sitemap
Submit News Tips
About Benzinga
About Us
Licensing and APIs
Apps (iOS and Android)
Fintech Awards
Blog
In the News
Careers
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Syndication
Terms and Conditions
Benzinga Partners
1 (877) 440-9464 (ZING)
© Copyright Benzinga