http://www.fxpips.com/bitcoin-price-seen-by-analysts-to-rise-if-donald-trump-wins-u-s-elections/
Bitcoin Price Seen By Analysts to Rise if Donald Trump Wins U.S. Elections | FxPips.com
News
Education
Trade Setups
Forex Brokers
Binary Brokers
Bitcoin
Live Charts
Signals
Calendar
/ News / Bitcoin Price Seen By Analysts to Rise if Donald Trump Wins U.S. Elections
Bitcoin Price Seen By Analysts to Rise if Donald Trump Wins U.S. Elections
POSTED BY CHRIS MIRANDA ON NOVEMBER 8, 2016 AT 2:37 PM
Bitcoin Price Seen By Analysts to Rise if Donald Trump Wins U.S. Elections
WHILE the United States has yet to vote for a new leader, there’s a growing speculation in the digital currency sector that if Donald Trump wins, it would lift the price of Bitcoin.
This makes sense, especially when one looks at the effect of the United Kingdom deciding to leave the European Union last June that, in one way or another, has pushed the price of bitcoin to a hundred-dollar climb in a single trading session.
Currency experts observed that while the electronic money markets might not witness a major transformation from a Hillary Clinton victory, Trump could provide on the currency table a marked contrast as a result of how his presidency (if that happens) may possibly impact investors around the world.
According to Bitcoin hedge fund analyst and director Jocob Eliosof, “I think a Trump victory would be good news for virtual currency much like nuclear war would be great for bitcoin”, adding that a Trump in the White House would be a huge “disaster in many respects – economic, geopolitical, democratic – and in the fear of bitcoin would be a defensive asset people could run to.”
Elsewhere, forex analysts embraced a less worried stance to the possible effects, stressing that a Trump win could give a tiny but major boost for Bitcoin.
Hedge fund expert Tom Enikeng believes so. “If anything, bitcoin might “fall a bit,” he disclosed.
Certain political analysts expect that if Clinton is elected as the next US president, her policy stances could result in her term being a continuation of President Obama’s.
While Trump has not been very vocal or supportive about his stance on Bitcoin during his recent campaigns, he has cast projected his persona as a Washington outsider, an attribute that traders believe could fan uncertainty (and with it a move that could lead to alternative assets).
This could set the stage for a temporary increase in bitcoin prices, Ennkeng expects, saying this would have little long-term effect.
“A Trump win would likely increase uncertainty domestically and, to some degree, around the world, and that would offer a short-term, upward rise to prices of Bitcoin.”
About Chris Miranda
Chris writes mostly about the latest in the stock market, finance, tech and business. View all posts by Chris Miranda →
Top Forex Brokers
Top Binary Brokers
1
Trade 24 Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
2
Trading Banks Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
3
NSFX Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
Follow Us
Newsletter Signup
Popular Posts
Zcash, the New Cryptocurrency, Makes “Deafening” Entry, Threatens Bitcoin, Ethereum
Company Earnings Report, as of Nov. 4, 2016
Metatrader Brokers
Spot Trade
Source of Wealthy Information
Advertisement
ABOUT US CONTACT US PRIVACY POLICY ADVERTISE SITEMAP PARTNERS
© 2016 FxPips.com. All rights reserved.
Risk Disclaimer: Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk, and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading, and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.