https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/major-korean-bank-bitcoin-remittance-service-launch/
A Major Korean Bank Will Soon Launch a Bitcoin Remittance Service - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
BankingBitcoin ServicesBitcoin Technology
A Major Korean Bank Will Soon Launch a Bitcoin Remittance Service
Samburaj Das on 11/11/2016

234
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Shinhan Bank, one of the largest financial institutions in South Korea will begin a remittance service – backed by bitcoin – between Korea and China, starting next month.
T
he Korea-China corridor will soon see the bitcoin remittance service made possible through Hong Kong as an intermediary, a country where digital currency transactions are legally allowed, according to Korean news outlet Pulse.
Fundamentally, the remittance operation will see Shinhan Bank transfer value to a digital currency exchange in Hong Kong, which will then further the transaction by transferring the value, in bitcoins, to a Chinese exchange at which point the value is then converted to local Chinese currency.
The bitcoin remittance will facilitate transfers to China.
The platform will be made possible with Shinhan Bank’s partnership with Seoul-based blockchain remittance startup Streami. The startup deems itself a ‘blockchain remittance middleware and infra provider’ for financial institutions and is targeting the Asian remittance market with the South Korea-China corridor as its first market foray. The startup raised $2 million in a seed funding round in December 2015, with Shinhan Bank as one of its most notable investors.
Seoul-based Shinhan has assets of over $250 billion in assets and has a presence in 19 countries around the world with over 8,500 employees across 700+ branches.
Welcoming Bitcoin and Blockchain Technology
South Korea has taken notable strides in investing in its Fintech economy, beyond its bitcoin-friendly stance. Perhaps most notably, the revelation of Shinhan’s bitcoin-backed remittance operation comes in the weeks following the South Korean government’s announcement to launch its own digital currency based on blockchain technology.
The South Korean government is also partnering Singapore’s central bank in a cooperation to push the Fintech envelope with a focus on big data and mobile payments. Earlier this year, the Korea Exchange (KRX), South Korea’s securities exchange announced that it was already taking steps to develop a blockchain-powered trading platform that will help buyers and sellers trade securities directly without the need for an intermediary.
As a sign of the increased interest surrounding bitcoin and blockchain technology, New York-based digital currency exchange Gemini, expanded to South Korea earlier this week, enabling its citizens to buy, sell or trade bitcoin and Ethereum through its exchange.
Images from Wikimedia and Shutterstock.
234
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Banking, Bitcoin Services, Bitcoin Technology, Blockchain News, FinTech News, News Tagged in: Shinhan Bank, south korea, Streami

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextA UK Law Firm is Offering Free Legal Advice to FinTech Startups10/11/2016
PreviousReport: Indian Bitcoin Exchange Zebpay in Talks to Raise $4 Million11/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.