http://www.the-blockchain.com/2016/10/11/spanish-power-company-launch-blockchain-lab/
Spanish Power Company to Launch Blockchain Lab - Blockchain News
Saturday, November 26, 2016
Contact
Blockchain News
HOME
NEWS
OP/ED
VIDEO
EVENTS
ABOUT
LIBRARY
NEWSLETTER
ADVERTISE
ICOS
Home News Spanish Power Company to Launch Blockchain Lab
News
Spanish Power Company to Launch Blockchain Lab
By Richard Kastelein -
October 11, 2016
192
Share with:

Thanks to its open innovation model, Spanish power company Endesa has recently launched a new Blockchain challenge through Endesa Energy Challenges, the company’s new collaborative platform that seeks, together with entrepreneurs, new energy efficient products and services.
The company will start collecting the applications to form part of this new initiative on 1 November.
“Some say that this technology may change everything and others that it could be the most important this century but what is true is that it is an unstoppable phenomenon in the Internet world. The potential for Blockchain is enormous and Endesa wants to be in the forefront. That is why the company is creating its first laboratory that focuses on this technology with the aim of obtaining new applications and user cases specific to the energy industry and which can be applied to the Spanish market,” writes Endesa.
It  is open to any participants (companies, individuals, researchers, start-ups, universities, research bodies, etc.) anywhere in the world. Anyone who wants to be accompanied by Endesa and delve into this passionate world can enter the selection process, which will be carried out as follows:
The applications to form part of this new initiative will be collected between 1 November and 31 January through Endesa Energy Challenges, the collaborative project that challenges the world’s most brilliant minds to create new solutions for more efficient energy, which was launched precisely one year ago at the South Summit. During that time, the company will shortlist the projects based on their potential value for Endesa because they define new products or services in the short and medium term and because they bring long-term emerging technologies of interest forward. And all of them will be based on the use of blockchain.
Between 1 February and 31 March, the company will select the final projects and start working together with the candidates, who will start developing their proposals using Endesa’s support. Ad-hoc collaboration agreements are expected to be arranged to develop each one.
On 1 April, the selected projects are expected to be announced and, from then on, the company will work together with the winners.
Share this:
EmailFacebook8TwitterRedditGoogleWhatsAppSkypePinterestTumblrLinkedIn6PocketPrintTelegram
Related
Coinsilium Announces Week-long Blockchain Developer Event in London in April
In "News"
Japanese Company Rakuten to Open Blockchain Lab in Belfast
In "News"
Australia's Power Ledger Expands Blockchain Energy Trials
In "News"
Get Blockchain News Where You Are!
Join our Linked in Group Like our Facebook Page
TAGS
Blockchain Lab
Endesa
Endesa Energy Challenges
Previous article
The Ethereum Blockchain is Helping Create the Next Generation of Tokens
Next article
Paxos and EY Cut Deal on Blockchain Gold Settlement Service
Richard Kastelein
http://www.the-blockchain.com
Founder of Blockchain News and The Hackitarians Foundation, Richard Kastelein is an award winning publisher and editor, hackathon organiser and entrepreneur. He has written over 700 articles at Blockchain News, has a massive network in the Blockchain arena and is available as a speaker and consultant. (richard@the-blockchain.com) Kastelein has spoken (keynotes & panels) on technology at events in Amsterdam, Barcelona, Belfast, Berlin, Brussels, Brighton, Copenhagen, Cannes, Cologne, Curacao, Frankfurt, Gdansk, Hollywood, Hilversum, Geneva, Groningen, London, Las Vegas, Leipzig, Madrid, Melbourne, NYC, Oxford, Rio de Janeiro, Sheffield, San Francisco, San Jose, Sydney, Tallinn, Vienna, and Zurich. A Creative Technologist & Canadian (Dutch/Irish/English/Métis) his career began in the Native Press (Canadian Arctic) and he later spent a decade in the Caribbean media. Currently, he writes occasionally for Wired Insights, Guardian & Virgin and his articles have been translated into Dutch, Greek, Polish, German & French.
Newsletter
Subscribe to our mailing list
* indicates required
Email Address *
First Name *
Last Name *
Email Format
html
text
eGaas ICO
PR Coin ICO
Beyond The Void
BECON Event
Advertise with Blockchain News
Blockchain Partners
Whale Club
Follow Us
Follow Blockchain News on your Favourite Social Sites.
facebook
linkedin
twitter
ICO List
Latest ICO information from www.ico-list.com
Friends of Blockchain News

Blockchain Quotes
In technology, as in human affairs, much of what we take for granted as “truth,” “reality,” and “the way things work” turns out to have been only one of many possibilities. And every once in a while, a technology comes along that redraws the map of what is possible, and reshapes the fundamental assumptions of all future applications. The Blockchain has the potential to be one of those technologies.
— Tim O’Reilly – CEO O’Reilly Media
Next quote »
Archives
Archives
   
   Select Month
     November 2016  (66)
  October 2016  (96)
  September 2016  (53)
  August 2016  (48)
  July 2016  (44)
  June 2016  (51)
  May 2016  (76)
  April 2016  (62)
  March 2016  (40)
  February 2016  (31)
  January 2016  (36)
  December 2015  (54)
  November 2015  (80)
  October 2015  (65)
   EDITOR PICKS
American Tax Office (IRS) Goes After American Cryptocurrency Traders at Coinbase
November 24, 2016
Chinese Video Hosting Service Youku First to Trial BlockCDNs Blockchain Content...
November 22, 2016
Blockchain TV: Blockchain Demystified – Ten Minutes of Blockchain Video
November 22, 2016
POPULAR POSTS
Amazon Announces Blockchain-as-a-Service (BAAS) Sandbox for Developers
May 3, 2016
IBM to Launch One of the World’s Largest Blockchain Implementations –...
July 30, 2016
Blockchain Technology and the Insurance Industry
January 19, 2016
POPULAR CATEGORY
News
703
Blog
150
Blockchain TV
56
Press Release
48
Opinion
34
Blockchain News Research Library
1
ABOUT US
Blockchain News is your source for the latest news and opinion on Blockchain and Distributed Ledger technology and intelligence.
Contact us: richard [at] the-blockchain.com
FOLLOW US
Disclaimer Privacy Advertisement Contact Us
© Copyright 2015 - Stichting Hackitarians
Do you like to receive push notifications from “Blockchain News”?
You can turn it off whenever you like.
Powered by Pushify
DenyAllow
Powered by Pushify