http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/18/indian-bitcoin-mining-pool-gbminers-obtains-5-hashpower/
Indian Bitcoin Mining Pool GBMiners Obtains 5% Hashpower
25-11-2016
04:30 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Indian Bitcoin Mining Pool GBMiners Obtains 5% Hashpower
Author
Guest Author
Categories
Sponsored Stories
2.1k



GBMiners, a Bitcoin mining pool which mined its first block in August, now stands to be one of the most competitive mining pools in Bitcoin sector.
India is not exactly a bright place when it comes to hosting Bitcoin mining operations, but a young startup is hoping to fight the odds for good.
GBMiners, a Bitcoin mining pool which mined its first block in August, now stands to be one of the most competitive mining pools in Bitcoin sector. At press time, it has obtained over 5% in hashpower, and is willing to walk more miles with its impressive business plan.
In a conversation with NewsBTC, Amit Bhardwaj, the co-founder and investor of GBMiners, stressed on educating masses about Bitcoin. He went on discussing the limitations an average Indian Bitcoin enthusiast face when he thinks about purchasing his/her first digital currency token.
“These are very early days for Bitcoin in India,” he stated, “people have more skepticism than fundamental understanding of the concept, once this threshold is crossed, Bitcoin will witness both the demand and adoption of the world’s 3rd largest economy and the world’s largest inward remittance market.”
Bhardwaj added that instead of influencing a potential Bitcoin-er to be an average trader, they want to make them a part of the Bitcoin creation. GBMiners’ aim, as he stated, is to convince traders and speculators to invest in Bitcoin mining operations; it not only helps investors to understand the industry, but also gives them a stronger idea about Bitcoin’stechnological and economical benefits.
That being said, GBMiners helps Bitcoin traders to do something more productive than just holding onto their investments and speculating, i.e. investing in mining operations. An efficient mining pool, which is being run by credible people, on their homeland, certainly gives these investors confidences for better returns.
Nikunj, another co-founder of GBMiners, stressed that obtaining 5% of the overall Bitcoin mining hash rate was not a simple task for their venture. He admitted that they had faced adequate roadblocks, specifically in regards to the growing monopoly of the majority of Bitcoin mining pools in the market.
“We started with putting our test servers across various existing mining pools and closely analysing the efficiencies. These early tests gave us ideas of possible areas of improvement, and we have been fairly satisfied with the efficiencies we’ve been able to achieve with GBminers. Can’t explain in detail here but we’re soon releasing our findings in a white paper for the mining community.”
India is Important to Bitcoin Sector
Indian government’s decision to ban its primary banknotes from circulation has indeed favoured Bitcoin trend in the nation, with exchanges reporting an increased demand for the digital currency. But indeed, the growth of Bitcoin in this South Asia’s emerging economy has been speculated since day one.
ZepPay, an India-based Bitcoin wallet application, has reported that they are adding 50,000 users each day amidst the growing Bitcoin trend.
GBMiners, too, believe that an increase confidence in the Bitcoin market will help accelerate the growth of their mining pool operations in India. Bhardwaj stated:
These are extremely exciting times to be a blockchain and cryptocurrency believer in India, with the recent move by Government clearly exhibiting the inherent risks associated with centralised monetary systems and the demonetisation resulting in significant devaluation in the real estate sector, I believe bitcoin is now ripe to resonate with the indian diaspora both philosophically and financially.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
2.1k
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.