http://www.coindesk.com/hillary-clinton-donald-trump-bitcoin-blockchain-campaign/
In 2016 US Election, Bitcoin and Blockchain Were Blips on Campaign Radar - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$730
$734
$738
USD -0.17%
$737.00
CNY 0.16%
¥5,192.86
EUR €695.65
GBP £590.44
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
FEATURES  •  LIFESTYLE  •  OPINION
In 2016 US Election, Bitcoin and Blockchain Were Blips on Campaign Radar
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 8, 2016 at 15:55 GMT
OPINION
286
23
9
As the US election ramped up last summer, the CoinDesk editorial team began to wonder: Given the mistrust in banks and financial firms, would bitcoin and blockchain become an election issue?
The answer, it turned out, was a resounding no, as neither major party candidate weighed in substantively on the issue.
CoinDesk spent much of the past year and a half attempting to engage with the campaigns of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and Republican nominee Donald Trump to no avail. Phone calls to their respective headquarters in Brooklyn and Manhattan went unanswered.
We saw Clinton's campaign pay lip service to the tech in a broad policy statement, only to learn months later that her senior campaign officials saw the digital currency as "too Libertarian" to accept. In one case, spokeswoman Hope Hicks declined comment by email – a degree of responsiveness the Clinton campaign would fail to achieve.
We thought we might get lucky. In the end, to quote Donald Trump, we were wrong. Nor did the campaigns of early hopefuls like Ted Cruz and Bernie Sanders engage with us either (though there was a promising start in the latter case).
Ultimately, none of the major candidates would go on the record with any publication about the tech or the sweeping changes it promises to bring to industries and consumers.
Yet, this isn’t to say the election didn’t have its moments.
Kentucky Senator Rand Paul spoke openly about bitcoin, as did Libertarian presidential candidate Gary Johnson, both of whom accepted donations in the digital currency. (We also asked the campaign for Green Party candidate Jill Stein what they thought, but our calls went unreturned).
Minor progress
Still, in the midst of it all, we saw Congress push for broad action on the tech (in as legally nonbinding a way as possible). One proposal even sought to potentially rethink how we manage health care for veterans using blockchain.
We also saw the start of a process at the top US elections watchdog to perhaps reclassify what a bitcoin donation is exactly. Along the way, some would speculate that particular winners might push bitcoin markets this way or that.
So, there was movement, albeit in a piecemeal fashion.
One could even argue that the stage was set for 2020 to be the presidential election year that bitcoin and blockchain become a campaign issue or even gets asked about in a presidential debate (our attempts to get a bitcoin question into the Democratic Party and GOP debates in New Hampshire were unsuccessful).
With Congressional action on the tech likely to happen over the next four years, there might soon be change. Here’s hoping.
Image Credit: JStone / Shutterstock.com
Disclaimer: The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of, and should not be attributed to, CoinDesk.
Donald TrumpHillary ClintonPresidential electionUS
286
23
9
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
As Argentina Embraces Blockchain, Emphasis on Politics...
NEXT ARTICLE
Coinbase Redesigns Wallet Website for Digital Assets
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
FEATURE
Nov 15, 2016 at 15:59 | Michael del Castillo
Blockchain Won't Just Change Regulation, it Could Reshape the SEC
SEC commissioner's departure are just part of the remaking of regulation thanks to Donald Trump and blockchain.
OPINION
Nov 13, 2016 at 17:04 | Michael J Casey
Will Bitcoin Have its Moment in the Trump Era?
Why a Trump presidency might bring about the fall of the dollar, with digital money as its replacement.
NEWS
Nov 10, 2016 at 12:16 | Stan Higgins
Trump Election Casts Uncertain Shadow on US Blockchain Policy
Leading blockchain policy groups weigh in on what a Trump victory means for the emerging technology and its startup community.
NEWS
Nov 9, 2016 at 18:40 | Michael del Castillo
Veteran Bitcoin Legal Strategist Joins Firm Hosting Trump Transition Meetings
Veteran bitcoin lawyer Carol Van Cleef has officially joined Baker Hostetler, a law firm that will oversee President-elect Trump's transition.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.