http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/01/kim-dotcom-bitcoin-forecast-again/
Kim Dotcom Reiterates His Bitcoin Price Forecast, $2000 in 2 Years - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
10:31 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Global
Kim Dotcom Reiterates His Bitcoin Price Forecast, $2000 in 2 Years
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News
294



Kim Dotcom, in his latest tweet, predicts the Bitcoin price to hit $2000 in the next two years after the launch of MegaUpload 2.0 and BitCache. Read more...
Kim Dotcom, the internet entrepreneur has yet again reiterated his forecast for Bitcoin price in the coming days. In his latest tweet, Kim states that the launch of MegaUpload 2.0 and BitCache will soon ensure the price of Bitcoin to cross $2000 in the next two years.
Kim Dotcom’s tweet comes as a reply to one of the Twitter user’s question, asking him whether he thinks the price of Bitcoin will rise because of MegaUpload 2.0 and BitCache. Kim has been a vocal supporter of Bitcoin and he has in many previous instances spoken about his plans to strengthen the digital currency and other uses of distributed ledger technology.
BitCache is a blockchain powered content monetization service that will soon be implemented into the upcoming MegaUpload 2.0, slated for launch in January 2017. The new MegaUpload 2.0 is his third attempt at building an online file storage and distribution service after his first platform, MegaUpload was forcibly shut down by the US government agencies. After the closure of MegaUpload, Kim started Mega, another file storage and sharing service, which is since then being operated without his involvement after he stepped down as the director in 2013.
The launch of MegaUpload 2.0 is set to coincide with the date on which the US Federal Bureau of Investigations shut down MegaUpload back in 2012. Kim has announced that the accounts belonging to MegaUpload users will be migrated to the new MegaUpload 2.0 platform and BitCache will be enabling Bitcoin microtransactions for content monetization by its users.
Kim Dotcom is also simultaneously fighting against the extradition appeal filed by the US authorities with New Zealand. The US authorities have been pursuing Kim for years now, with the intention of trying him in the United States under their laws. The final arguments against Kim Dotcom’s extradition were presented at the New Zealand’s High Court last week.
“Overall the defense believes that MegaUpload and its employees enjoy safe harbor protection and can’t be held criminally liable for copyright infringement. As such, there is no extraditable offense,” argued Kim’s defense.
The ruling from the High Court is still awaited and many media outlets, as well as the prosecution and defense, believes that no matter what the verdict is, the case is bound to reach the Supreme Court due to United States’ heavy-handed approach.
Ref: Twitter | TorrentFreak | Image: Fast Company
294
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×