http://www.thedenverchannel.com/news/local-news/marijuana/some-cannabis-hemp-farmers-and-businesses-turning-to-bitcoin-for-commerce
Some cannabis, hemp farmers and businesses turning to Bitcoin for commerce - 7NEWS Denver TheDenverChannel.com
4 WEATHER ALERTS
34°
Big Lots
Tractor Supply Company USA
CVS Pharmacy
Family Dollar
Some cannabis, hemp farmers and businesses turning to Bitcoin for commerce
Blair Miller
2:01 PM, Nov 7, 2016
marijuana | cannabis | commerce | finance | banking
2015 Getty Images
ETHAN MILLER
SHOW CAPTION
DENVER – In an effort to find better ways to bank within the marijuana industry, the woman who oversees Colorado’s largest hemp seed exchange has turned to Bitcoin as a viable option and has set up a new exchange for farmers and producers that utilizes the alternative currency.
Veronica Carpio, who was among the first dispensary owners in Colorado and who now heads Grow Hemp Colorado, turned to Bitcoin to handle her company’s finances after PayPal froze her business account for the hemp seed exchange, according to a Vice News report.
PUBLICIDAD
She eventually turned to Bitcoin and an exchange called Mycelium to help her facilitate business deals between her business, hemp farmers and companies buying the seeds.
But some farmers pushed back at the new technology, which led to her co-founding 1620 Solutions with a hemp farmer to educate farmers on how to use Bitcoin.
The 1620 Solutions website says it “offers a[n] evolutionary processing solution for industries which experience financial censorship such as Cannabis which includes both hemp and [marijuana].”
People using the website can use Bitcoin, which is converted into dollars and placed into a web-based wallet and vice versa.
“Our founders are hemp farmers that soon realized that traditional processing and banking services are not viable solutions for our respective businesses, and have vested interest elsewhere, despite the favorable legal landscape that has emerged,” the 1620 Solutions website reads. “Thus, we decided to provide the members of this Industry with an innovative solution.”
Many Denver-area cannabis shops deal only in cash, and others statewide are either forced to lie about their business or to use nondescript business names to hide their dealings from federal banks, many of which do not accepted cannabis-related money.
The U.S. Department of Justice has said since 2014 that banks and credit card companies should be able to deal with cannabis-related business, but many have opted not to.
---------
Sign up for Denver7 email alerts to stay informed about breaking news and daily headlines.
Or, keep up-to-date on the latest news and weather with the Denver7 apps for iPhone/iPads, Android and Kindle.
Copyright 2016 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Print this article Back to Top
A A A
SHARE ARTICLE

Sponsored Content
Meet the €10,000 winner of Coca-Cola’s Thank You Fund
Home of Coca‑Cola Ireland : Diet Coke : Coke Zero - Coca-Cola Ireland: The Coca-Cola Company
Plain Health
Extreme Sports: Skateboarder May Be Charged After Breaking…
Muscle & Fitness
Recommended by
TRENDING ARTICLES
Trump Christmas ornament gets bad Amazon reviews
The iconic "Make America Great Again" red cap is now a Christmas tree…
  Powered By
TOP STORIES TRENDING NOW
Cuba's Fidel Castro, who defied US for 50 years, has died - 7NEWS Denver TheDenverChannel.com
Trooper killed in crash on I-25 south of Castle Rock; NB lanes closed for investigation - 7NEWS Denv
With recounts looming, Trump adds new administration picks - 7NEWS Denver TheDenverChannel.com
‘KKK N----r’: Home vandalized with hate speech in Aurora while family was inside - 7NEWS Denver TheD
Vigil held for Windsor teen killed in head-on crash on I-25 - 7NEWS Denver TheDenverChannel.com
NEWS VIDEO WEATHER TRAFFIC CONSUMER SPORTS ENTERTAINMENT MARKETPLACESUPPORT
7NEWS & TheDenverChannel.com
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Station Jobs
News Staff
Debbie's Deals
TV Listings
7Everyday Hero
Community
Mile High Living
RSS
KMGH FCC Profile
The Now
Mobile Apps
7NEWS Denver
iPhone | iPad Kindle Android
Storm Shield
iPhone | iPadAndroid
Laff Network
Stay Connected
 facebook
twitter
instagram
youtube
Email Alerts
Google+
Scripps TV Station Group
© 2015 The E.W. Scripps Co
Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEO FCC Public File