http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/31/ukraine-mp-declares-btc-assets/
Parliamentary Member in Ukraine Declares Bitcoin Assets - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:45 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Global
Parliamentary Member in Ukraine Declares Bitcoin Assets
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News



Alexei Mushak became the first parliament member in Ukraine to divulge his Bitcoin holding. Read more...
The European countries have a mixed reaction towards Bitcoin. The rate of Bitcoin adoption varies among countries in the continent. The same can be said about the governments and the respective central banks’ stance towards the digital currency. Ukraine is among one of the few nations to have a supportive cryptocurrency ecosystem. Even the major banking institutions in Ukraine have started accepting Bitcoin payments through their merchant solutions.
In a first, Alexei Mushak — a member of the Ukrainian parliament became the only politician in the country to declare Bitcoin as assets. The electronic wealth and asset declaration form was filled by Mushak in compliance with the European nation’s new anti-corruption rules. According to his declaration, Mushak possesses a total of 465 BTCs worth about $325,000 at press time.
Alexei Mushak’s declaration of his cryptocurrency savings along with fiat and other immovable assets shows the increasing awareness and openness about digital currency among the country’s ruling class. His declaration follows the recent parliamentary discussion about the legalization of Bitcoin and other digital currencies in the country.
In addition to cryptocurrency, Ukraine is also seeing a huge movement toward the use of Bitcoin’s underlying distributed ledger technology. The county’s central bank — National Bank of Ukraine is currently working on the development of blockchain applications for its Cashless Economy project. Owing to the popularity of the cryptocurrency technology, few notable startups with innovative ideas have cropped up in the region as well.
Currently, the largest private bank in the country — Privatbank allows users to make Bitcoin payments on its Allo service. Ukraine is also playing host to various cryptocurrency, blockchain, and cyber security conferences. Last month, the Bitcoin Conference that attracted cryptocurrency and payments companies from across the world was organized in Kiev. The country’s Ministry of Finance is also reported to have started exploring the use of blockchain technology to reduce corruption, especially when it comes to government transactions.
All these factors offer a brief picture of the country’s successful foray into the cryptocurrency sector.
Ref: Forklog | NewsBTC | Image: Shutterstock.
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.