http://bravenewcoin.com/news/ask-the-doctor-now-accepts-bitcoin/
Ask the Doctor now accepts bitcoin » Brave New Coin
Ask the Doctor now accepts bitcoin
Luke Parker, 15 Oct 2016 - Bitcoin Adoption, Bitpay, Medical Services
People around the world with sensitive medical questions require discretion about their healthcare, and users who want to keep their healthcare private can now hide their medical payments from their bank or credit card company.
“Many of our users ask extremely sensitive questions from teenage pregnancy to STD's to drug use that they are too afraid to go to their own doctor’s office to get help for. On top of that, many users don’t want their family members to know. While it does take some extra effort to have complete anonymity using Bitcoin, it’s certainly a large improvement over a credit card.”
- Prakash Chand, Ask The Doctor CEO
Ask the Doctor launched in 2010, and has been answering questions from anyone with an internet connection ever since. They handily keep answers in a searchable format for browsing. The startup partnered with the US National Institute of Health (NIH), who runs the PubMed medical journal, in 2011. They integrate all of Ask the Doctor’s answered questions, minus identifying user information, into the nationalized biomedical collection.
In 2012, the National Medical Library announced that they were attempting to feed the answers from Ask the Doctor into an Artificial Intelligence program run on the supercomputer Watson. The project was designed to help determine the role computers can play in interpreting and dispensing medical advice using artificial intelligence.
In June of this year, the company celebrated their five millionth question milestone, and claims over a million registered users with 25,000 people using the website each day, all serviced by their network of over 10,000 doctors. Questions come from patients in nearly every country around the world, according to the company’s website.
Although limited to answering questions only, Ask the Doctor allows customers to seek out healthcare without many of the negatives associated with a doctor’s visit, such as waiting room delays, insurance worries, and scheduling doctor’s appointments.
Ask The Doctor's Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Michael Warner MD, recently said, "The traditional doctor-patient visit is not designed to meet the needs of patients who require information or reassurance."
"Our virtual platform allows patients to ask questions without being interrupted. Physicians can provide comprehensive answers because they respond during their free time without the pressure of having a full waiting room."
- Dr. Michael Warner MD, Ask The Doctor's CMO
The service allows customers to choose their own level of expertise in their healthcare provider. When they type in a question, they get to choose to send it to a General Physician or specialist in one of the many medical areas of practice.
The company offers four levels of service on their website, from speaking to a nurse for free, all the way up to speaking with a specialist for US$39. The company announced on Thursday that they are accepting Bitcoin for all levels of service as “a new way to further help protect their patients privacy.”
The payment option is currently available on desktop, with the help of Bitpay, while plans to a mobile solution is currently in the works. Unlike other payment options, like Paypal or credit cards, Bitpay does away with personal information that can link users to their transaction.
However, Bitcoin is not fully anonymous. Bitcoin’s blockchain records every transaction, making blockchain forensics that much easier. With the help of law enforcement or exchange operators, those transactions can be linked to users.
“In reality, Bitcoin is probably the most transparent payment network in the world. At the same time, Bitcoin can provide acceptable levels of privacy when used correctly.” - Bitcoin.org
Ask the Doctor isn’t the first online healthcare provider to accept Bitcoin. In the tumultuous autumn of 2013, just as MtGox was preparing to implode and the price of a bitcoin was closing in on its all-time high, a mostly-anonymous bitcoin startup called CoinMD launched a similar service in exchange for bitcoin payments.
However, CoinMD had one fatal flaw. Their doctors were anonymous too, just like the patients. The website’s founder was operating on the theory that keeping doctors anonymous removes the threat of medical malpractice lawsuits, and therefore doctors would be more inclined to offer inexpensive advice, leading to a crowdsourced medical community website.
Wired magazine wrote, “This Is the Absolute Worst Place on Earth to Spend Your Bitcoins.” No legitimate licensed physician would ever participate, the scathing review states, since they would risk losing their license. The DailyDot was even more pointed, noting that CoinMD beat the US government’s infamous HealthCare.gov website for being “the most poorly-executed online health venture of the year.”
Ask the Doctor’s medical professionals are all clearly identified and licensed, allowing customers to be sure they are getting real healthcare professionals to answer their questions, even if their own names are hidden.
Recommended Stories
Shakeup at R3 CEV blockchain consortium as banks leave
Bitcoin Price Analysis — Decision Time
Yours raises funds for bitcoin based Reddit alternative
Indian Bitcoin exchange tackles liquidity shortage following the withdrawal of Rupee notes
Major banks from India and Dubai complete blockchain trade finance and remittance transactions
Luke Parker, 14 Oct 2016 - Banking, Blockchain Adoption, Dubai, India
India’s largest private bank, ICICI, and one of the middle east’s largest banks, Emirates NBD, recently announced successful international blockchain transactions for both Trade Finance and Remittance purposes.
International Trade Finance allows importers and exporters to minimize their trade risk through financial networks and trusted intermediaries. A single transaction can involve lending, issuing letters of credit, factoring, export credit issuance, and insurance, just for a single shipment.
The process typically takes two to three days, involves a lengthy paper trail, and requires international shipping and a courier for document delivery. The costs for using these intermediaries has always been a major pain point for the import/export industry, and blockchain technology may hold the key to removing that cost almost completely.
The World Economic Forum and Deloitte recently published a 130-page paper, “The Future of Financial Infrastructure,” detailing how blockchain technology can reshape financial services. Trade Finance appeared throughout the report as one of the most promising sectors of finance for improvement.  
“Since financing has become such an integral part of trading, the market has grown substantially to more than US$ 10 trillion annually.”
- World Trade Organization

The test data concerned a scrap steel transaction between a Mumbai-based firm and a Dubai-based supplier. The information contained in the blockchain transaction included a purchase order, an invoice, shipping and insurance papers.
Each participant was able to authenticate ownership of goods, transmit their trade documents, check the status of their applications, and transfer their titles, while maintaining confidentiality.
The trade application “replicates the paper-intensive international trade finance process as an electronic decentralised ledger,” according to Emirates NBD. It gives all participants, such as banks and exporters, the ability to access a single dataset on an “un-alterable ledger,” in real time. Doing so makes secure and encrypted digital contracts easy for stakeholders, the bank said. The application is designed to work with existing banking systems and processes, allowing banks to “plug in their systems and process.”
“I envision that the emerging technology of blockchain will play a significant role in banking in the coming years by making complex bilateral and multi-lateral banking transactions seamless, quick and more secure.”
- Chanda Kochhar, ICICI MD & CEO
The international bank-to-bank remittance testing involved a Mumbai-based ICICI Bank branch sending funds to a Dubai-based Emirates NBD bank branch instantly. Previously, this process took between two hours and a few days.
ICICI Bank Ltd., NYSE:IBN is India’s largest private bank reports total assets of US$139.14 billion as of June 30. The bank’s network currently spans 17 countries with a network of 4,451 Branches and 14,073 ATMs across India.
Emirates NBD is one of the largest banking groups in the middle east, and listed on the Dubai Financial Market. As of 31 December, the Bank’s total assets were US$110 billion. With operations in the UAE, Egypt, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and the United Kingdom, it has over 220 branches and over 940 ATMs and employs over 9,000 people from 70 different countries.
Emirates NBD is the digital banking solutions provider for the Dubai Future Foundation and a member of the Global Blockchain Council. On September 18, the Foundation began a three-month program for startups and businesses called the Dubai Futures Accelerator,  which has three blockchain-based businesses attending to help make Dubai a world leader in the technology.
Reflecting on the first successful pilot project, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Chairman of Emirates NBD said “Our pilot project, a first for the banking sector in the UAE, demonstrates blockchain’s immense potential to change how organisations and governments conduct business.”
“We anticipate blockchain to be a potential game changer in creating a secure, scalable, cost and time-efficient digital ecosystem for government and businesses and as a bank that has pioneered digital innovation in banking and payments in the UAE, we are truly excited to take the lead in testing future applications of this exciting technology in the banking sector.”
- Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Chairman of Emirates NBD
According to Emirates NBD, the technology is called “EdgeVerve Blockchain Framework,” which is a “permissioned ledger designed specifically for the banking sector that can scale up to experiment several business use cases.” The technology was supplied in part by EdgeVerve systems, an I.T. solutions provider that is wholly owned by Infosys. The co-creator was not revealed. EdgeVerve is a newcomer to the Blockchain space and does not list any blockchain products, services, nor experience on their website.
Two likely contenders to be their partner on this project are Blockapps and Consensys, two of three Blockchain startups chosen for the Dubai Futures Accelerator. They’re now at the stage in the accelerator program where they must test out and refine their proposals with the Dubai government contacts. Both already offer “Blockchain as a Service” applications through Microsoft’s Azure cloud platform.
However, the project faces stiff competition. On September 6 Barclay’s Africa in the Seychelles and Barclay’s UK in Ireland claims to have conducted the world’s first transaction over a Blockchain in the Trade Finance space.
The transaction is reported to have guaranteed an export of about US$100,000 worth of butter and cheese to the Seychelles Trading Company from the Irish agricultural co-op Ornua, both clients of Barclay’s. Blockchain start-up Wave, provided the technology for Barclay’s, who had just sponsored Wave through their own accelerator program.
Both Wave and Barclays have made statements since the event that they are planning to follow up from the successful test with some kind of service offering in the future.
Meanwhile Bank of America, HSBC, Merrill Lynch, and Singapore’s IDA announced that they are working on their own consortium network specifically for Trade Finance as well.
Remittances have also been tested by banks across various blockchains, including the February 2016 test by JP Morgan that moved US dollars between 2,200 of their clients across their own test blockchain.
Recommended Stories
Shakeup at R3 CEV blockchain consortium as banks leave
Bitcoin Price Analysis — Decision Time
Yours raises funds for bitcoin based Reddit alternative
Indian Bitcoin exchange tackles liquidity shortage following the withdrawal of Rupee notes