http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/technology/london-banks-are-preparing-for-cyber-attacks-by-stockpiling-bitcoin-in-case-of-ransom-payments/news-story/2d5384dee27af5c9b74d43b9a5c31fb3
London banks reportedly stockpiling bitcoin to pay off potential hackers | Daily Telegraph
Sydney16–26°C
London banks are reportedly stocking Bitcoin to pay off future hackers.
Hacking
London banks are preparing for cyber attacks by stockpiling Bitcoin in case of ransom payments
Nick Whigham, news.com.au
October 25, 2016 5:42pm
THE threat of debilitating attacks launched by hackers has become so concerning that financial institutions in London are reportedly stockpiling Bitcoin to pay off potential ransom demands of cyber criminals.
On Friday in the US, a number of major sites including Netflix, Spotify, Reddit and Twitter were affected by a large-scale distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack causing them to become unavailable to users.
It was just another reminder of the debilitating potential posed by co-ordinated cyber attacks — and corporations are drawing up contingency plans.
According to one UK expert, some of London’s major banks are beginning to stockpile the digital currency Bitcoin in case they need to pay off future hackers.
Dr Simon Moores is a former technology ambassador for the British government and is the chair of the annual international e-Crime Congress which is a global body that brings together IT professionals.
He said some of London’s financial institutions were coming around to the view that it was cheaper to pay the demands of cyber criminals rather than suffer the fallout from an attack.
“The police will concede that they don’t have the resources available to deal with this because of the significant growth in the number of attacks,” he told The Guardian.
“From a purely pragmatic perspective, financial institutions are now exploring the need to maintain stocks of bitcoin in the unfortunate event that they themselves become the target of a high-intensity attack, when law enforcement perhaps might not be able to assist them at the speed with which they need to put themselves back in business.”
The Bitcoin digital currency is favoured by online criminals because it can’t be traced.
The recent DDoS attacks which drew global headlines are believed to have used a code to allow them to take control of internet-enabled devices such as security cameras and smart TVs to bombard the servers of US company called Dyn, which provides directory services to online companies.
It had nothing to do with profiteering. Most attacks of that nature are often political and are either about making a statement or simply done for kicks (or ‘lulz’ in hacker parlance).
But there is the potential for hackers to threaten the use of such a code in a bid to get companies to pay a ransom or suffer a disruptive and damaging attack.
British telco company TalkTalk lost more than 100,000 customers and £60 million as a result of a cyber attack carried out in October last year. The alleged teenage culprit had reportedly demanded 465 bitcoins which at the time which was worth £216,000.
Mr Moores said such tools were becoming “weaponised” by hackers.
Cyber security is no longer solely about protecting data as corporations are becoming increasingly concerned about “shareholder and customer confidence,” he said.
It is not known exactly which banks are stockpiling the untraceable digital currency (presumably as to not encourage attacks for ransom) but it highlights an interesting shift in how some of the biggest corporations are approaching the threat of cyber attacks.
Australia’s banks won’t talk about cyber crime.
Australia’s major banks won’t discuss their own policy when it comes to possibly dealing with cyber criminal syndicates in such a fashion.
The Commonwealth Bank declined to comment when asked by news.com.au if it would consider paying a ransom in order to avoid a potentially worse financial injury.
“Commonwealth Bank views cyber security is an important national issue and a shared responsibility. As technology is rapidly transforming economies around the world and creating new opportunities for growth and prosperity, we recognise there needs to be a sustained focus on cyber security from government and industry to create a strong, secure and resilient modern economy,” a spokesperson said.
ANZ bank was also reticent to share its position when it came to such a situation.
“ANZ takes cyber security very seriously. Our customers rely on us to keep their money and information safe, we have a team of experts who work around the clock to pre-empt and respond to threats. Due to the nature of this work it’s not appropriate for us to comment any further,” a spokesperson said.
Data on the details and cost of cyber attacks on the financial system is not available given attacks are not reported under Australian law.
However in a recent submission to the government’s Productivity Commission, the Australian Bankers’ Association said the cost of cybercrime in Australia was at least $1 billion a year for individuals alone and would be much higher if governments and businesses were included in that figure.
Featured Video
Sorry, this video is not available in your region
More videos
Is bitcoin the blueprint for a bankless currency or the biggest pyramid scheme in history? Is it the alternative to a failing finance sector, or are we simply shifting power from today's banking elite to a new online elite?
Bitcoin Gospel
Originally published as The hackers are winning
You may like
Kylie poses topless in sexy shoot
Entertainment
Ring of Fire: ‘More earthquakes overdue’
Technology
iPhone 8 rumoured to have 3D camera
Technology
Shipwrecks vanish without a trace
Technology
Miranda Kerr poses nude for celebrity photographer Chris Colls
Lifestyle
Creepy website monitors you
Technology
‘I almost lost my life three weeks ago’
Lifestyle
Multi-millionaire’s secret sex lair
Lifestyle
Octomom: ‘I felt like a freak show’
Lifestyle
Fears for Olivia Newton-John’s daughter
Lifestyle
Hotels tell guests to have more sex
Travel
Ruby’s love life imitates art
Entertainment
RECOMMENDED BY
Most viewed
Rove lands gig at Nine and ruffles feathers
Teen girl goes missing in Maroubra
SHE WON A CONTEST THAT DOESN’T COUNT
GORILLAS AND THE FITZ
More Hacking
IBM pays out millions for Census fail
‘Bitcoins or I start executing patients’
‘Shazam is always listening’
Millions exposed in sex website hack
Featured stories
Thousands at risk in 2G shutdown
Want to delete yourself from the net?
Godzilla hurricanes could strike cities
Zumwalt destroyer breaks down
Daily Deals
Compare Home Loans
Compare 3000+ home loans
iPhone 7 & 7 Plus
Compare all carrier prices now
Samsung Galaxy S7
All plans for the world's best Android
Best credit cards
Compare 100+ credit cards
Compare Personal Loans
Personal loans starting from 8.66%
Best Car Loans
Compare 50+ Car loans
A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising. You can " find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out here
NEWSLETTERS
IPAD APP
MOBILE
SEND STORIES
News
Breaking News
Local
New South Wales
National
World
Opinion
Photos
Technology
Weird
Weather
The Australian
news.com.au
Herald Sun
The Daily Telegraph
The Courier-Mail
The Advertiser
NT News
The Mercury
Sport
AFL
NRL
Rugby Union
Racing
Cricket
Football
Motor Sport
Golf
Tennis
Boxing
Basketball
Netball
Local Footy
US Sports
Fox Sports
Punters.com.au
Sports TG
Business
Breaking News
Markets
Economy
Small Business
Work
Companies
Terry McCrann
Business Spectator
Eureka Report
Entertainment
Movies
Music
Television
Books
Arts
Competitions
Style
Confidential
Celebrity
Photos
Moshtix
Foxtel
Daily Telegraph
Follow Us
Find us on
Twitter
RSS
Privacy Policy
Relevant Ads Opt-out
Cookie Policy
About Us
Digital Print Edition
Contact Us
Sponsorship
Letter to the Editor
For The Record
Place an Ad
Advertise with us
Photo Sales
Tributes
Job Opportunities
Journalism Program
Help
Accessibility
Site Map
Code of Conduct
Terms of Use
Subscription Terms
Group/Corporate Subscriptions
News Corp 2016 Copyright