https://techcrunch.com/2016/10/15/watch-all-six-episodes-of-our-series-trust-disrupted-bitcoin-and-the-blockchain/
Watch all six episodes of Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain
News
Video
Events
Crunchbase
SEARCH

10TH ANNUAL CRUNCHIES AWARDSThe Finalists Have Been Announced Get Your Tickets Today
Bitcoin
Truth Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain
fintech
blockchain
Watch all six episodes of the series Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain
Posted Oct 15, 2016 by Travis Bernard (@travisbernard), Rebecca Friedman (@rebeccapf12)

Next Story
Our latest video series explores the world of bitcoin and the blockchain, and you can now watch all six episodes on YouTube and TechCrunch.com.
The series features Nathaniel Popper, a New York Times reporter and the author of the book on which the series is based, along with several bitcoin developers, influencers and scholars tracing the history of bitcoin and analyzing its future.
Episode 1 seeks to explain the blockchain, the technology that allows bitcoins to be transferred between entities, and the motives behind its creators. The episode also examines the platform’s future and how it will be received by governments and big banks, the very institutions its creators were trying to sidestep — or even overturn.
Episode 2 explores bitcoin mining and the role that miners have in governing the system.
Episode 3 dives into bitcoin’s identity and how it must choose what it wants to be.
Episode 4 investigates the rise of blockchain.
Episode 5 looks at Ethereum and its possible implications as well as the effects of a hack on its Decentralized Autonomous Organization.
Episode 6 explores the battle between the open blockchain (Silicon Valley) and the closed blockchain (Wall Street).
 
  by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
From the Web
What will cognitive computing change?
Financial Times for CapGemini
Tiny Device Allows You To Track Anything (it's Genius!)
TrackR Bravo
Finally You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Smart Device Trends
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Bitcoin
FOUNDED
2007
OVERVIEW
Bitcoin is a form of digital currency, created and held electronically. However, it is a currency not controlled by a central source. Bitcoins aren’t printed, like dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world, using software that solves mathematical problems. It is the first example of a growing category of money known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin …
LOCATION
San Jose, CA
CATEGORIES
Bitcoin, Mobile Payments, Financial Services, Payments
Full profile for Bitcoin
Blockchain
Uber
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
Latest Crunch Report
Facebook Builds a Censorship Tool | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes
Comment moderation powered by
UP NEXT
Let’s have a little compassion for (some of) the trolls
Posted Oct 15, 2016
CrunchBoard
Job Listings
CRM Berater (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
C++ Developer - Qt Product Development (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
Full Stack Engineer at FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
UI Engineering @ FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
Senior Backend Engineer @ MeetMe at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA, United States)
More from CrunchBoard
ADVERTISEMENT
TechCrunch
News
Video
Events
Crunchbase
TechCrunch Store
About
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
Send Us A Tip
International
China
Europe
Japan
Follow TechCrunch
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Youtube
Pinterest
Tumblr
Instagram
StumbleUpon
Feed
TechCrunch Apps
iOS
Android
Windows 8
Subscribe to The Daily Crunch
Latest headlines delivered to you daily
Enter Email Address
SUBSCRIBE
© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by