https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/purse-introduces-bcoin-library-spur-bitcoin-applications/
Purse Introduces Bcoin Library To Spur Bitcoin Applications - CryptoCoinsNews
Submit a Press Release Advertise Write for CCN News Tips Contact
Explore

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin Blockchain FinTech ETH Learn Free PR Widget
Bitcoin BusinessBitcoin ProgressBitcoin Services
Purse Introduces Bcoin Library To Spur Bitcoin Applications
Elliot Maras on 01/10/2016

1.1k
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Purse, an online marketplace that encourages bitcoin use and innovation, has introduced bcoin, a Javascript library to help bitcoin businesses build applications. Purse provides a full node implementation that allows it to utilize new additions to the bitcoin code base as they become available.
B
coin is consensus aware and is up to date with the latest BIPs, supporting Segregated Witness, versionbits, CSV, and compact block relay, according to Github. It also has preliminary support for BIP151 (peer-to-peer encryption), BIP150 (peer authentication), and BIP114 (MAST). It runs in node.js, but it can also be browserified.
In a posting on Medium, Purse noted it was established to provide real world applications for bitcoin. It began by offering Amazon discounts. It now carries more inventory than Amazon, eBay and Google Shopping, with lower prices. The company’s mission is to provide ultimate transparency and efficiency to global commerce.
Built On Top Bitcoin Core
The Purse team tested third party services developed to make bitcoin more secure and simpler, but these services did not meet the necessary scalability and functionality needs. Hence, Purse built on top of Bitcoin Core for its initial wallet infrastructure.
Bitcoin Core’s code base, while the standard, proved hard to work with. This is why only a small number of developers actively contribute to Bitcoin Core. Only a few dozen fully comprehend all of its quirks. Moreover, Core wasn’t built for big marketplaces. It takes a long time to deploy new features.
These realities make it hard for bitcoin businesses to create applications, a situation that undermines new use case developments.
Bcoin Addresses Full Node Issues
Christopher Jeffrey, a former BitPay employee, joined Purse as chief technology officer to build bcoin.
Full node presents a unique set of issues. Deploying a full node wallet from scratch presents challenges, as Satoshi warned against it in 2010: “I don’t believe a second, compatible implementation of Bitcoin will ever be a good idea,” Satoshi wrote. “So much of the design depends on all nodes getting exactly identical results in lockstep that a second implementation would be a menace to the network.”
Purse’s goal is to accelerate the protocol’s development. This includes deploying Lightning and allowing features to permit new uses cases such as smart contracts. Purse is not trying to defy Satoshi and become a “menace to the network,” or to weigh in on the block size debate. The goal is to make bitcoin great again.
Bcoin is an infrastructure for the bitcoin ecocystem. It is intended to be the most easy-to-use and most versatile bitcoin library, supporting Lightning, Segwit and Schnorr signatures, along with other new BIPs.
Also read: BPurse.io looks to expand after raising $300,000
Spurring The Next Generation
Purse has open sourced bcoin to spur the next generation of apps, including those that Purse does not build.
Technical features include:
• Full blockchain validation
• SPV mode
• Running natively in apps and browsers
• Wallet database (HD keys with BIP44 derivation)
• Mempool/miner
• Bitcoin-compatible JSON RPC API
• REST API
• Support for Lightning Network (bcoin-plasma), Segwit, CSV, Versionbits, BIP70, BIP151, BIP152, BIP150 and MAST
Purse will integrate bcoin directly into its back end in the next couple of weeks. Once bcoin is live, developers will be assured it is ready for use.
Images from iStock and Purse.
1.1k
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Bitcoin Business, Bitcoin Progress, Bitcoin Services, Bitcoin Technology, News Tagged in: bitcoin core, Christopher Jeffrey, Purse

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
Next‘Money Mule’ Scams Adopting Bitcoin ATMs For Transferring Hacked Funds01/10/2016
PreviousMinexSystems Offers 4 Reasons to Join MineCoin ICO This Week01/10/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.