http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/trading/bitcoin-price-comes-back-down-to-700-level-after-reports-china-may-ban-it/
Bitcoin Price Comes Back Down to $700 Level After Reports China May Ban It | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyTradingBitcoin Price Comes Back Down to $700 Level After Reports China May Ban It
Bitcoin Price Comes Back Down to $700 Level After Reports China May Ban It
A Bloomberg Terminal screenshot posted on social media sparked a wave of rumors that China will ban Bitcoin again.
Avi Mizrahi | Trading (CryptoCurrency) | Friday, 04/11/2016|12:02 GMT
1
0
Photo: Finance Magnates
It seems the recent Bitcoin rally is not unstoppable after all. After the BTC/USD exchange rate reached as high as $744 per Bitcoin yesterday many expected it to very soon break the $750 benchmark. Instead, the price rapidly crashed to as low as $677 before settling back around the $700 level.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
The reason for this unexpected drop is new rumors that Chinese regulators are set to limit Bitcoin trading. If this sounds familiar it is because we have seen this play out before a number of times already, when Chinese central bankers and financial authorities made some disparaging statements about the cryptocurrency.
What seems to have sparked the rumor mill this time are unconfirmed reports assigned to anonymous Bloomberg sources that China is looking to limit Bitcoin as a way to prevent people from moving their funds offshore. After a Bloomberg Terminal screenshot posted on social media first appeared with the story, many people doubted the validity of the report. However, soon after the popular financial doom and conspiracy blog ZeroHedge picked up the story and ran it to its considerable avid following giving it a higher level of credibility with many day traders.
Bloomberg Terminal Screenshot
Charles Hayter, the CEO of CryptoCompare.com, comments: “At this moment the rumours are unverifiable leading to a number of possible scenarios – With uncertainty comes volatility.
A premium has been in existence on the Chinese markets for the past few weeks as the Yuan has depreciated – on peaks this has been as high as $30 between various markets. The average difference has now come off with the three largest Chinese exchanges trading on a par with the two largest USD exchanges, BitFinex and Bitstamp.
This would suggest more weakness on the CNY markets and a haltering of the optimism, for the time being, in China.
Either the story is true and Bitcoin will face trouble in China – or rumours are being created and circulated  to move markets – which is not a stretch of the imagination.”
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: Bitcoin Price / china
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
michael dogecoin
Ban? what you on about? the rumour was limited the amount of bitcoin sent from an exchange to a foreign exchange. how is that banning it?
such a doge
November 4, 2016 at 11:51 pm 0 0
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 9 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 12 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 12 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Jason Granger and Charlie Shrem Set to Launch Private Equity Investment Fund
Bitcoin Market Cap Above $12 Billion as Price Climbs Back to $750
Bitcoin Price Jumps Over $735 As Donald Trump Wins US Presidency
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions