http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/30/36490/
Switzerland's SBB Will Offer Franc-to-Bitcoin Trading - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:47 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Global
Switzerland’s SBB Will Offer Franc-to-Bitcoin Trading
Author
Nick Marinoff
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News



If you love bitcoin and you’ve ever fancied a trip to Switzerland, now may be the perfect time.
In an unusual and positive twist, the country’s rail system has announced that it will offer customers the opportunity to trade francs for bitcoins starting November 11. Just think… Now you can travel cross-country and get a first-rate view of the alps with a few trusty bitcoins by your side.
The move is meant to test Switzerland’s attitude and potential necessity for cryptocurrency, which for the most part, has been largely unavailable until this point. In a statement, the SBB system explains:
“There have been few possibilities to obtain bitcoins in Switzerland until now… With its 1,000-plus ticket machines, SBB operates a dense, around-the-clock distribution network that’s suited for more than just ticket sales.”
When one considers Switzerland’s financial background, the fact that bitcoin has been missing-in-action does make sense, somewhat. Switzerland is known for its central banking tactics; the world’s wealthiest trust Switzerland’s financial style, and line up in droves to get their hands on a unique routing number. Once a Swiss bank is opened, it’s very difficult to close, primarily because the country expects faith from its customers and knows it can back its reputation with the safety its clients require.
It’s unknown if the introduction of bitcoin and related virtual currencies will lead to a dip in this trust, but it does prove that knowledge of bitcoin is spreading every day, and the status it has sought to reach since its introduction may soon become a reality.
Approximately 1,000 kiosks will be equipped with the franc-bitcoin trading option via SweePay, a national financial services firm. Customers must provide a mobile phone number for identification, and limit their transactions to 500 Swiss francs or less. At the time of this writing, one bitcoin is worth nearly 700 Swiss francs, comparing them in value to USD.
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×