https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/circle-enables-bitcoin-buying-selling-europe/
Circle Enables Bitcoin Buying and Selling in Several European Countries - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin ExchangeBitcoin ProgressBitcoin Services
Circle Enables Bitcoin Buying and Selling in Several European Countries
Samburaj Das on 19/10/2016

101
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
B
itcoin blockchain-centric P2P Fintech firm Circle has now added support for bitcoin buying and selling in several European countries beyond the UK.
Six months after bitcoin exchange and services firm Circle saw an electronic money license granted by the British government, the company is pushing on to other countries in Europe.
Users from sixteen countries including the likes of Belgium, France, Germany, Italy and Spain will now be able to link their Euro-based credit and debit cards. Notably, there are no fees for buying bitcoin with debit cards, making Circle stand out in a growing list of global digital currency exchanges extending support to Europe.
Furthermore, 9 out of the 16 countries will enable its users to hold Euros, as well as bitcoin, in their Circle accounts. A complete list of supported countries can be found here.
The feature comes during the days following the European Central Bank pushed for tighter controls on bitcoin across the European Union, urging its members to explicitly state that the cryptocurrency cannot be considered a legal currency, or money.
The European Central Bank isn’t thrilled about Bitcoin.
Earlier this year in April 2016, Circle was granted an electronic money license by Financial Conduct Authority, Britain’s primary financial regulator. The official license was in itself a milestone for the bitcoin industry. With it, US-based Circle enabled US and UK consumers to transmit value in sterling pound or U.S. dollars, over the bitcoin blockchain.
Incidentally, Circle was also the first bitcoin company to receive the state of New York’s first-ever BitLicense, in November 2015. The well-funded Fintech startup continues to advocate for the development of public blockchains over the frenzied rush among the financial industry to develop private, permissioned blockchain solutions.
  In an earlier blog, Circle’s co-founders stated:
We’d be thrilled if everyone in the world enjoyed Circle, but people benefit most if Circle is part of an open global network of value exchange with thousands of other software providers, online services, and financial institutions who are connecting to and innovating on public blockchains.
  Circle’s global expansion plan received a boost in mid-2016, when the bitcoin startup completed a $60 million round of funding in China.
101
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Bitcoin Exchange, Bitcoin Progress, Bitcoin Services, Bitcoin Wallets, News Tagged in: Circle, europe

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextBlockchain Can Disrupt the Disruptors in Uber and AirBnb19/10/2016
PreviousWalmart and IBM Partner to Put Chinese Pork on a Blockchain19/10/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.