http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/21/bitcoin-ira-introduces-gold-rebate-promotion-for-new-clients/
Bitcoin IRA Introduces Gold Rebate Promotion for New Clients
25-11-2016
05:54 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
CRYPTOCURRENCY ANALYSIS
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Downtrend Intact
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Showing Positive Signs
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Trend Bearish
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Buyers Make It?
ViaBTC Receives Mysterious 210 Bitcoin Deposit To Cloud Mining Address
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin IRA Introduces Gold Rebate Promotion for New Clients
Author
Guest Author
Categories
Press Release
38



Bitcoin Press Release: Groundbreaking retirement investment company introduces new gold rebate as investors see gains of over 40.
October 20, 2016, Los Angeles, CA – Bitcoin IRA, the first and only bitcoin-based retirement investment company, today announced the introduction of a gold rebate for new clients. While supplies last, investors who open an account with Bitcoin IRA will automatically qualify for a rebate in the form of gold eagle coins. The rebate is available to all new customers, giving them an extra incentive to save for retirement with an innovative, fast-growing alternative investment.
Depending on the size of the account they open, new investors are eligible to earn up to a full ounce of gold:
● $15,000 bitcoin investment = 1/10 oz. gold eagle coins
● $35,000 bitcoin investment = 1/4 oz. gold eagle coins
● $70,000 bitcoin investment = 1/2 oz. gold eagle coins
● $100,000+ bitcoin investment = 1 oz. gold eagle coins
Since Bitcoin IRA officially launched in May, the value of bitcoin has risen almost 40%, climbing from $452 per bitcoin to $637 as of October 20th. This is expected to grow significantly over the long term as a result of bitcoins’ limited supply and increased usage, making a bitcoin IRA potentially much more profitable than conventional IRAs.
Bitcoin Price at Launch: $452.75
Current Bitcoin Price: $636.97               
Gain Since  Inception: $184.22              
Percentage Returns: 40.68%
Bitcoin versus the S&P
Bitcoin IRA offers both traditional and Roth IRA options, which offer the same tax incentives as regular IRAs and 401(k)s. Uniquely, the retirement portfolios are made up of actual bitcoins, which are stored in a secure, private digital wallet. In addition, investors keep total control over their bitcoin deposits, with no holding fees and the ability to withdraw once the term is over.
In addition to the gold rebate, Bitcoin IRA offers a similar rebate for silver, giving customers the option to receive a 1% rebate in real silver in exchange for opening a new account. For more information, interested investors can call 1 (877) 936-7175 or request a Free Bitcoin IRA Investment Guide.
About Bitcoin IRA
Bitcoin IRA is the only bitcoin-based retirement investment portfolio that allows people to invest with actual bitcoins for their IRA or 401(k). The platform works with leading fintech professionals to provide secure, high-quality bitcoin investments.
Learn more about Bitcoin IRA at: https://bitcoinira.com
Get your free Bitcoin IRA Investment Guide at: https://bitcoinira.com/bitcoin-investor-guide/

Media Contact
Contact Person: Johannes Haze
Contact Email: info@bitcoinira.com
Location: California, USA
Bitcoin IRA is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to FDIC and other consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only.
About Bitcoin PR Buzz:
Bitcoin PR Buzz has been proudly serving the PR and marketing needs of Bitcoin and digital currency tech start-ups for over 2 years. Get your own professional Bitcoin and digital currency Press Release. Click here for more information.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
38
Company Contact
Company Name
Bitcoin IRA
Company Address
California, USA
Representative Name
Johannes Haze
Email
info@bitcoinira.com
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.