http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/16/running-successful-bitcoin-company-not-necessarily-require-vcs/
Running A Successful Bitcoin Company Does Not Necessarily Require VCs
25-11-2016
04:52 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Running A Successful Bitcoin Company Does Not Necessarily Require VCs
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News, Opinion
33



It is impossible to deny the financial returns VC-backed companies can achieve in a few years. Companies who run an ICO in the Bitcoin world usually see far less returns, but the tokens are tradeable across exchanges.
The Bitcoin and blockchain sector heavily relies on investments from VCs. But as it turns out, the venture capital approach can cause quite a few issues for companies as well. There is a right and wrong approach to dealing with VC funding when push comes to shove. Enterprises taking the wrong approach will find themselves at a significant disadvantage.
In the end, it all boils down to whether or not the entrepreneurs in question can be efficient at their job. It’s hard to grasp the concept of efficient entrepreneurship, and securing funding plays a key role in the process. That said, it is not the only driving factor by any means.
VCs Are Optional To Achieve Success
In fact, dealing with VC funding can be more of a curse than a blessing. Raising a lot of money is needed in the early stages, but it can also create a false sense of security. In fact, a company raising US$50m won’t necessarily do better than a startup securing US$1m. Companies who raise a lot of money at an early stage deal with high expectations, and they usually struggle to deliver.
TechCrunch put together a comprehensive list of companies who are overly successful – and less successful – at raising VC funding. While publicly-traded startups seem to be doing quite well if they can survive for an extended period, some of them may have already fallen apart by then. The number of Bitcoin companies going public is very limited, for now, but it is a trend to keep in mind as well.
Given the recent list of ICOs which raised a lot of money in the cryptocurrency industry, it looks like steering away from VCs is becoming the new norm. That being said, crowdfunding such projects is always the best course of action. Companies who focus on doing one thing well will usually require one or several VC investors.
It is impossible to deny the financial returns VC-backed companies can achieve in a few years. Companies who run an ICO in the Bitcoin world usually see far fewer returns, but the tokens are tradeable across exchanges. That does not mean one is more or less successful than the other, by any means. But it does go to show that relying on VCs is not the only option, and purposefully moving away from that ideology could pay big dividends in the long run.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
33
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.