http://www.coindesk.com/bitcoin-blockstream-patent-sidechains/
Bitcoin Startup Blockstream Seeking Patent for Sidechains Design - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$730
$734
$739
USD -0.16%
$737.11
CNY 0.18%
¥5,193.95
EUR €695.76
GBP £590.53
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
COMPANIES  •  NEWS  •  TECHNOLOGY
Bitcoin Startup Blockstream Seeking Patent for Sidechains Design
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 11, 2016 at 22:00 GMT
NEWS
343
100
87
The US Patent and Trademark Office (USTPO) has published a patent application submitted by bitcoin startup Blockstream related to its work on sidechains.
The application, submitted on 9th May and published earlier this week, outlines “systems and methods...for transferring an asset from a parent chain to a sidechain”. It names Blockstream CEO Adam Back and Blockstream CTO Greg Maxwell (who is also a Core contributor) as inventors. Sidechains are envisioned as a way to allow the movement of digital assets from one blockchain to another, opening the door to new kinds of applications and experiments using the tech.
The application’s release comes months after the startup announced a patent pledge, saying at the time that it would make its patents and applications available under the Defensive Patent License. The application outlines how assets could be exchange between a primary blockchain and a sidechain to which it is connected, explaining:
“A simplified payment verification (SPV) proof associated with the parent chain asset may be generated. The SPV proof may include a threshold level of work. The SPV proof associated with the parent chain asset may be validated, and a sidechain asset corresponding to the parent chain asset may be generated. If no reorganization proof is detected, the sidechain asset is released.”
Blockstream released its first open-source code for sidechains last summer, later moving to debut a sidechains projects dubbed Liquid aimed at bitcoin exchanges.
The startup raised $55m in a Series A funding round in February, and in July acquired bitcoin wallet startup GreenAddress in a bid to boost its development of sidechains.
Disclosure: CoinDesk is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which has an ownership stake in Blockstream.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly reported that Adam Back was a contributor to the Bitcoin Core development team. The article has been updated to remove this inaccuracy. 
Image via Shutterstock
BlockstreamPatentSidechains
343
100
87
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Hong Kong Central Bank: Blockchain Holds 'Enormous...
NEXT ARTICLE
Bitcoin Wasn't the Only Digital Currency to See...
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
FEATURE
Nov 10, 2016 at 16:45 | Alyssa Hertig
How Two New Sidechains Proposals Could Change Bitcoin's DNA
Work on bitcoin sidechains – long thought to be one of the best ways to improve the functionality of the network – is advancing. Here's how.
FEATURE
Nov 4, 2016 at 17:35 | Alyssa Hertig
Stolen Bitcoin? Anti-Theft Feature Gets Second Life on Sidechains
A concept that could enable new functionality for bitcoins on the bitcoin blockchain is being tested by Blockstream.
NEWS
Oct 26, 2016 at 17:39 | Stan Higgins
AT&T is Seeking a Patent for a Bitcoin-Powered Server
US telecom giant AT&T is seeking a patent for a kind of home subscriber server that utilizes a blockchain.
FEATURE
Oct 9, 2016 at 18:28 | Pete Rizzo
Why Weight? Bitcoin Scaling is Moving Beyond Block Size
Day two of Scaling Bitcoin in Milan showcased how bitcoin's technical community is trying to put the contentious "block size debate" in the rearview.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.