http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/19/circle-now-supports-cards-several-european-countries/
Circle Now Supports Cards from Several European Countries - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
06:13 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Circle Now Supports Cards from Several European Countries
Author
Nick Marinoff
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
60



Circle customers in Europe and the UK can now link cards from a wide array of countries, many of which can also hold euros in their Circle accounts.
Circle describes itself as “more than a payment app” that has worked hard to make the process of moving money less “archaic.” The company exists to make online payments as simple and convenient as possible, while also enforcing additional safety measures and protecting user privacy.
Circle’s website states:
“Unlike existing systems that are closed and proprietary, we use open internet standards and protocols, including the blockchain (allowing us to offer this service for free). We also foster innovative approaches to risk, including our AI risk engine, which runs on cutting edge algorithms that continuously keep your money safe.”
Now, Circle is adding the euro and European cards to its growing list of supported financial systems, and countries are being added to its list of clientele every day. The platform already hosts major credit card companies such as Mastercard and Visa through accounts stationed in both the United States and abroad.
At the present time, not all Circle accounts can hold both euros and bitcoins simultaneously, although the company is working to change that. Some of the countries that offer Euro card support include Austria, Belgium, Estonia, France and Germany, while those with accounts that can hold euros include Finland, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and Slovenia. An entire list of applicable nations can be found here.
Last summer, Circle made headlines when it was announced that its latest bitcoin app had managed to raise over $60 in strategic funding efforts, while also making itself available in China and other select parts of Asia. The company first began working towards European expansion just over a year ago, and was the first bitcoin business to receive a regulatory license by way of New York’s infamous BitLicense.
60
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×