http://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/news/2016/10/17/report-thiel-makes-million-dollar-trump-donation/92282944/
Thiel's Trump donation stirs controversy, ire in tech
NEWS
SPORTS
LIFE
MONEY
TECH
TRAVEL
OPINION
49°
CROSSWORDS
ELECTIONS 2016
VIDEO
MORE
SEARCH
FIREFLY




4856
3
70
Thiel's Trump donation stirs controversy, ire in tech
Marco della Cava , USA TODAY 7:26 a.m. EDT October 18, 2016
Entrepreneur Peter Thiel has donated money in support of Donald Trump despite major Silicon Valley leaders supporting Hillary Clinton. Time
(Photo: Kim Kulish for USA TODAY)
SAN FRANCISCO - The candidacy of Donald Trump continues to create rifts in Silicon Valley.
The catalyst this time was word that libertarian tech investor Peter Thiel had funneled $1.25 million to the Republican presidential candidate's campaign.
That move drew a mixed reaction from Thiel's friend Sam Altman who is president of influential tech incubator Y Combinator — Thiel is a partner in Y Combinator — which in turn drew a rebuke from tech employment advocate Ellen Pao.
"Thiel is a high profile supporter of Trump, I disagree with this," Altman tweeted Sunday, after The New York Times reported on Thiel's Trump donation. In other tweets, Altman called Trump "an acceptable threat to America."
That said, Altman made it clear was not not going to distance himself personally or professionally from Thiel: "YC is not going to fire someone for supporting a major party nominee."
That stance drew a swift reaction from Pao, co-founder of Project Include, whose aim is to improve diversity in the tech world.
Pao, who a few years ago unsuccessfully sued venture capital giant Kleiner Perkins Caulfied & Byers for gender discrimination, wrote in a blog post on Medium Monday that Project Include would be ending its relationship with Y Combinator due to the fact that it did not cut ties with Thiel.
"Thiel’s actions are in direct conflict with our values at Project Include," she wrote. "Because of his continued connection to YC, we are compelled to break off our relationship with YC. We hope this situation changes, and that we are both willing to move forward together in the future. Today it is clear to us that our values are not aligned."
USA TODAY
Palantir: We do not discriminate against Asians
Thiel made his billions by co-founding PayPal. At this summer's Republican National Convention, Thiel was the lone tech billionaire to take the podium, where he spoke about being conservative and homosexual.
Thiel was in the news earlier this year when he came forward as the main financial backer of Hulk Hogan in the wrestler's lawsuit against Gawker Media, which had posted a video of Hogan having sex. Hogan's successful suit against Gawker —which had earlier outed Thiel as gay — bankrupted the media company.
One of Thiel's companies, secretive data-analytics outfit Palantir Technologies, is being sued by the Labor Department, which is charging that it discriminates against Asians. Palantir has denied the accusation.
Follow USA TODAY tech reporter Marco della Cava @marcodellacava
4856
CONNECT
TWEET
3
LINKEDIN
70
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
POPULAR STORIES
'Brady Bunch' mom Florence Henderson dies at 82
usatoday.com 8 hours ago
Dez Bryant, Josh Norman spout off after postgame clash
usatoday.com 23 hours ago
Mr. Trump, denounce Alex Jones: Sandy Hook principal's daughter
usatoday.com 16 hours ago
Trump adds two names to his team while in Florida
usatoday.com 6 hours ago
Jill Stein files for recount in Wisconsin
usatoday.com 3 hours ago
  by Taboola 
AD CONTENT
Income Protection-Become An Employer Of Choice
Financial Times
Presidents Ranked from First to Worst
InsideGov — By Graphiq
1,000,000 Have Adopted This New Way To Learn A Foreign Language
Babbel
A Solution That Puts Snoring to Bed
My Snoring Solution
Watch: An Amazing 360 Experience Of Abu Dhabi's Sights And Sounds
CNN for Abu Dhabi Tourism
This game will keep you up all night!
Stormfall: Free Online Game
MORE FROM USATODAY
Sheriff: Sherri Papini 'very emotional' after she was found
NEWS | 15 hours ago
Twitter reacts to Aretha's national anthem
FTW | 38 hours ago
Walk on the moon, ride on the tallest roller coaster in VRtually There
VRtually There