http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/news/overstocks-medici-invests-in-blockchain-voting-startup-settlemint/
Overstock's Medici Invests in Bitcoin-recorded Voting Startup SettleMint | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyNewsOverstock’s Medici Invests in Bitcoin-recorded Voting Startup SettleMint
Overstock’s Medici Invests in Bitcoin-recorded Voting Startup SettleMint
Overstock CEO says blockchain is a "perfect technology for achieving higher confidence in the democratic process, for everyone.”
Avi Mizrahi | News (CryptoCurrency) | Tuesday, 08/11/2016|13:19 GMT
0
0
Photo: Patrick M. Byrne, CEO of Overstock (Bloomberg)
Medici Ventures, Inc., a blockchain-oriented subsidiary of Overstock.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:OSTK), has announced it will add SettleMint to its portfolio of investment companies. A Belgium-based fintech firm, SettleMint most recently released SettleMint Ballot Box, an application for recording voting on the bitcoin blockchain.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
“Medici Ventures is immersed in a global search for outstanding companies poised to disrupt key sectors with blockchain technology,” said Jonathan Johnson, president of Medici Ventures. “SettleMint is precisely the kind of company we hoped to find and we’re pleased to be an angel investor at such an early stage of what promises to be a very auspicious future.”
“Medici Ventures believes that blockchain technology can replace over 100 mechanisms of modern civilization and perform their functions far less expensively, and with less risk of capture and corruption, than those functions are being performed by current social institutions,” commented Patrick Byrne, CEO of Overstock. “Two years ago we identified six functions that will be fundamental to this new age, one of which was voting. Among SettleMint’s several great attractions to Medici Ventures’ capital has been their early work on blockchain voting. The immutability and universal accessibility of the blockchain make it the perfect technology for achieving higher confidence in the democratic process, for everyone.”
“The list of blockchain firms that Medici Ventures has invested in already and those that are seeking to join the Medici Ventures portfolio, is long and distinguished,” added SettleMint Founder and CEO Matthew Van Niekerk. “It’s very exciting to be a part of this organization, which shares our vision and determination to move blockchain technology from the realm of theory, squarely into reality. And that it’s happening in conjunction with the release of our SettleMint Ballot Box makes this a thrilling time for our company.”
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: blockchain technology / Overstock
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 10 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 12 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 12 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Senegal to Introduce Blockchain-based Currency to West Africa, eCFA
Bitcoin Hardware Wallet KeepKey Adds Ethereum Support
Blockchain Issues Ten Millionth Bitcoin Wallet due to Unprecedented Activity
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions