http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/10/anonymous-style-winner-rakes-16btc-in-at-games-bitcoin-com/
Anonymous Style Winner Rakes 16BTC in at games.bitcoin.com! - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
06:21 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Anonymous Style Winner Rakes 16BTC in at games.bitcoin.com!
Author
Gautham
Categories
Sponsored Stories



User 92062b07f7 on games.bitcoin.com has registered the biggest win of a whopping 16.57 BTC to date on the platform. Read more...
User 92062b07f7 won a whopping 16.57 BTC at games.bitcoin.com on October 12th. This is the biggest win yet at this pure bitcoin casino and it highlights all the amazing advantages that playing Bitcoin can give you! If you read stories about wins at other casinos, you will generally read about a school teacher that hit a jackpot or a retiree in Sweden that came up with a huge win rolling the dice. With games.bitcoin.com the only thing we really know is that an anonymous player just hit a 16.57 BTC jackpot!
This is exactly what Bitcoin gaming is all about, and Games.bitcoin.com has taken it one step further. Here are some of the reasons why pure bitcoin gaming at games.bitcoin.com is fun, exciting, fair, and can deliver such an amazing amount of big wins:
There is no need to register.
Players are completely anonymous, just like Satoshi Nakamoto meant it.
Every game is provably fair.
The maximum house edge on any game is only 1%!
Instant withdrawals through blockchain guarantee lightning fast payouts!
Incredibly well designed original boutique games deliver an exciting gaming experience.
This is your chance to take advantage of all the goodies and be the next anonymous person to score a huge bitcoin jackpot, in that long list of anonymous winners at games.bitcoin.com. The best part of it is that when we write about your win, we will never be able to know that we are writing a piece about you! So go ahead, pick your favorite game and star winning. You know these house edges are exceptional and you’ll be able to score a win on anything. Pick your favorite game:
Video poker – 0.25% house edge.
Blackjack – 0.4% house edge.
Roulette – 1% house edge.
Craps – 0.2% house edge.
Keno – 1% house edge.
Slots – 1% house edge.
Dice – 0.75% house edge.
It’s time to play like a true Bitcoin gamer and win like no one else ever before at games.bitcoin.com. The next jackpot might have your name on it and no one but you will ever know! Are you ready to shatter that 16.57 BTC win?
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.