http://www.onlinecasinoreports.com/articles/moscow-to-host-blockchain--bitcoin-conference-this-week.php
Moscow to Host Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference This Week | Online Casino Reports
Toggle navigation
Rate it!
     9.8
$1200 Bonus Package
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.7
Bonus de Bienvenida
100% hasta $200
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.7
$200 Welcome Bonus
Code: SLOTS200
Get My Bonus


Home News
Moscow to Host Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference This Week
Published November 7, 2016 by Sol FH
The latest conference on the revolutionary crypto currency Bitcoin will be held in Moscow on November 10.
On November 10, Moscow will be the host of the biggest Bitcoin and Blockchain conference to date in Russia. This conference will delve into the world of how Bitcoin and Blockchain are used, and can be used for iGaming, which is reason enough to attend. With growing Blockchain-based services and online casinos accepting Bitcoin as the primary method of payment, this conference promises to be informative and an excellent platform for networking. 
Smile-Expo are operating this conference and they have promised an exciting schedule full of keynote speakers, industry professionals and more. These technologies are no longer only for IT pros, rather it is making its way into the lives of casino players, operators, business-people and end-users. This year's conference will be focused on two main halls, one for financiers and the other for industry entrepreneurs. 
Crypto-Financiers
For those in the financial fields, the portion of the conference relevant will be how to implement blockchain technology in banking, the proposed creation of a Russian blockchain consortium and a governmental bill on crypto-currency regulation. This side of the conference will be excellent for those just getting started and those with a solid knowledge base surrounding the tech.
Crypto-Entrepreneurs
For the entrepreneurs out there, this portion of the conference will focus on various aspects of blockchain in telecommunications, legal, insurance, asset management and general information. 
Keynote Speakers
There will be a number of professionals that will lead lectures and discussions about development of financial and technical services, finance, investment and other experts with deep knowledge of the crypto-currency and the technology surrounding it. 
In addition, the organizers have announced that there will be much participation from major payment services, not based in Russia. This will definitely mean that attendees will be getting the most professional and relevant information from many of the leaders in various industries. 
Tickets are available and this conference would be a good one to attend if you plan on being in Moscow on November 10.
See also
Prague to Host the Bitcoin & Blockchain Conference Next Month

Bonuses
SPIN PALACE
WELCOME BONUS
$250
  100% Match Bonus
Min. Deposit: $10
PLAY NOW
PLATINUM PLAY CASINO
FREE SPINS BONUS
50
  Free Slots Bonus
PLAY NOW
7SULTANS CASINO
WELCOME BONUS
$500
  100% Match Bonus
Min. Deposit: $20
PLAY NOW
YES! I WANT TO KNOW ABOUT EXCLUSIVE BONUSES, PROMOTIONS, AND NEWS.
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Navigation
Casinos
Bonuses
Games
Guides
News
Directory
Seal of Approval
Forum
Blacklisted Casinos
Popular Pages
Top Casinos
Exclusive Bonuses
No Deposit Bonuses
Mobile Casinos
Live Dealers
Free Casino Games
Progressive Jackpots
Live Streams
Apps
Games
Online Blackjack
Online Craps
Online Baccarat
Online Slots
Online Video Poker
Online Roulette
Online Hi-Lo
Online Casino Reports
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletter
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
Add Your Brand
Sitemap
Blog
Frequently Asked Questions
Responsible Gambling
International Sites


Online Casino Reports
onlinecasinoreports.com ©2016