http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/15/free-republic-liberland-remains-unoccupied-despite-presidents-best-efforts/
Free Republic of Liberland Remains Unoccupied Despite President's Best Efforts
25-11-2016
06:38 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Free Republic of Liberland Remains Unoccupied Despite President’s Best Efforts
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
42



Contrary to what people may assume, the Liberland concept is as bona fide as it gets.
Bitcoin enthusiasts are familiar with the name Liberland. This unclaimed piece of land between Croatia and Serbia turned into the Free Republic of Liberland. The country’s first President, Vit Jedlicka, finds himself in a bit of a pickle right now. Due to ongoing issues with Croatan Police, president Jedlicka is incapable of setting foot on his would-be republic.
The name Liberland gained mainstream media attention a few months ago. Not only is this free republic rather unique, but the region is also only 2.5 square miles large. But the most important aspect is how Bitcoin is the national currency of this nation, rather than traditional currencies. A bold plan was set in motion by Vit Jedlicka and his team, but there are several roadblocks along the way.
Accessing Liberland Is Virtually Impossible Right Now
Even though the area we now call Liberland is unclaimed territory, Croatian police are very protective of it. Accessing the soil of this new republic requires a boat trip over the Danube, which is freely accessible. However, setting foot on Liberland will lead to visitors being arrested by Croatian police officials. It is not the first time the police stops people visiting the new republic either.
Despite this setback, the popularity of Liberland continues to grow. Close to half a million people have requested citizenship, and several libertarian donors contribute to the cause. However, despite this global support, no one has occupied the new republic in over a year due to conflicts.
Contrary to what people may assume, the Liberland concept is as bona fide as it gets. The region is unclaimed territory, meaning there is no ownership over it right now. What seems to be the key issue is how Liberland would have no gun control. Neither Croatia nor Serbia is too happy with that outlook, which is why they prevent people from accessing the premises.
The plot thickens, as Vit Jedlicka is involved in a court case over the “legality” of his new republic. If Croatia wants to fine him for trespassing, it implies an international border present. However, that would also validate this unclaimed territory as “up for grabs”. As a result, Liberland would be officially recognised as a free republic.
It is evident this new free republic needs to be supported at all costs. Countries who want nothing to do with a specific stretch of land cannot arrest people from accessing it. Unless they do something illegal, that is. But for now, the idea of a free republic where Bitcoin is the only currency is still viable.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
42
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.