http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-ripple-ceo-idUSKBN12W4O9
Ex-AOL, Yahoo executive appointed Ripple CEO | Reuters
BREAKING NEWS:Fidel Castro dead at 90: Cuban TVVIEW MORE
X
EDITION:
UNITED STATES
Business
Markets
World
Politics
Tech
Commentary
Breakingviews
Money
Life
TECHNOLOGY NEWS | Tue Nov 1, 2016 | 1:26pm EDT
Ex-AOL, Yahoo executive appointed Ripple CEO
By Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss | NEW YORK
U.S.-based financial technology start-up Ripple announced on Tuesday its Chief Executive Officer Chris Larsen has decided to step down and will become the company's executive chair.
Larsen said Brad Garlinghouse, the firm's current chief operating officer, will become the new CEO effective Jan. 1.
San Francisco-based Ripple is a provider of blockchain-based cross-border payments technology for banks and has raised more than $90 million in funding from a whole range of investors.
Blockchain technology powers the digital currency bitcoin, enabling data sharing across a network of individual computers. It has gained immense popularity because it can record and track assets across all industries.
"I have been in fintech for 20 years and I am kind of looking forward to not having the day-to-day responsibility the CEO takes," Larsen said in an interview with Reuters.
"I am trying to get the right balance between Ripple and spending time with my two young boys. But I couldn't be more happy for Brad, about where we are and how Brad has gotten us here, and what he would be able to do for us going forward."
PUBLICIDAD
inRead invented by Teads
Larsen earlier co-founded E-Loan in 1996, one of the first online mortgage lending platforms, whose business grew to a $1 billion company in terms of market value by 2000. In 2006, Larsen also co-founded Prosper Marketplace, the first U.S. peer-to-peer lending marketplace.
Garlinghouse, on the other hand, was previously the CEO of Hightail, a cloud service company that lets users send, receive, digitally sign and synchronize files. Before Hightail, he was the president of applications and commerce at AOL, and a senior vice president at Yahoo.
"We're going to stay the course at Ripple," Garlinghouse said in an interview. "This the appropriate time to do this because we have a lot of tailwind and momentum on our side. We're not expecting any sharp turns one way or the other."
ALSO IN TECHNOLOGY NEWS
Uber in landmark court battle on Tuesday to escape strict rules
Xiaomi says shrinking smartphone sales won't hit the company
But one area the company will focus would be the global payments steering group, Garlinghouse said. In September, Ripple announced the creation of the first interbank group for global payments based on distributed financial or blockchain technology.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Santander, UniCredit, Standard Chartered, Westpac Banking Corporation, and Royal Bank of Canada are the founding members of the network, known as the Global Payments Steering Group. CIBC will also join as a member of the group.
(Reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss; editing by Grant McCool)
NEXT IN TECHNOLOGY NEWS
Thanksgiving sales surge online as shoppers stay home for holiday
Online spending by U.S. bargain hunters climbed to above $1 billion by Thanksgiving evening, according to Adobe Digital Index, surging almost 14 percent from a year ago and reflecting a broader trend away from brick-and-mortar shopping.
Johnson & Johnson approaches Actelion about takeover deal
ZURICH/FRANKFURT U.S. healthcare company Johnson & Johnson said on Friday it was in preliminary talks with Actelion about a potential takeover of Europe's largest biotech firm, currently valued at about $20 billion.
MORE FROM REUTERS
Trump will get wake-up call when he takes office, Obama says
Willing to oppose Trump, some Senate Republicans gain leverage
Ghost airplane attends banquet for new Airbus jet
China goes global as Trump puts America first
Exclusive: Billionaire green activist Steyer vows to battle Trump, says money not an issue
SPONSORED CONTENT
FROM AROUND THE WEB
Promoted by Taboola
NFV se está convirtiendo en una realidad comercial y operativa: ¿está preparado para esto?
Ciena
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Soldiers: Free Online Game
Income Protection-Become An Employer Of Choice
Financial Times
Te aseguramos que tu mundo no volverá a ser igual.
Galaxy Studio
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
My Snoring Solution
Para los Amantes de la Música Clásica, llegó la nueva forma de disfrutarla
selectatv.com
TRENDING STORIES
1
Blue-collar Democrats to party: It's still the economy, stupid
2
U.S. opens door to oil exports after year of pressure
3
Shares slip in low-volume trading; safe-havens rise
4
Brent and WTI see small gains as end of year approaches
5
Wall St. pulls back from record; utilities slump
FOCUS 360
Video: Heading to space
SPONSORED TOPICS
Follow Reuters:
Follow Us On Twitter
Follow Us On Facebook
Follow Us On RSS
Follow Us On Instagram
Follow Us On YouTube
Follow Us On LinkedIn
Subscribe: Feeds | Newsletters | Podcasts | Apps
Reuters News Agency | Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters is the news and media division of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
EIKON
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface
ELEKTRON
Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management
WORLD-CHECK
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks
WESTLAW
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology
ONESOURCE
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
CHECKPOINT
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2016 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
Site Feedback Corrections Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines AdChoices Terms of Use Privacy Policy