http://www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2016-11-12/u-s-election-sends-bitcoin-surging
U.S. Election Sends Bitcoin Surging - Bloomberg
Bloomberg the Company & Its ProductsBloomberg Anywhere LoginBloomberg Terminal Demo Request






Sign In
Subscribe
U.S. Election Sends Bitcoin Surging
Latest and Largest Airbus A350 Makes Its Maiden Flight
Donald Trump’s Thanksgiving Prayer Is for Nation to Heal Divisions
Davidowitz: What It's Like Living in Trump Tower
Are France and Italy About to Shake up Europe, Again?
The Spider Robots That Might Build a Lunar Colony
Full Show: With All Due Respect (11/23/16)
Investing in Markets at Record Highs
Options Insight: How to Play Nvidia
What's Ahead for Gold in 2017?
What Trump's Trade War with China Would Look Like
U.S. Election Sends Bitcoin Surging
8:18 PM PET
November 11, 2016
Share on FacebookShare on Twitter
Donald Trump's surprise at the polls initially sent equity markets tumbling and Bitcoin surging. Christopher Burniske, Blockchain Products Lead at ARK Investment, explains how Bitcoin can be a safe investment, or gold 2.0, when traditional capital markets are uncertain. (Source: Bloomberg)
Most Recent Videos
Full Show: Bloomberg Markets Middle East (11/16)
U.S. Election Sends Bitcoin Surging
Bill Gross on the Global Bond Selloff
August 24, 2016
Blockchain Backers Gather to Advance Governance
38:57 - Some of blockchain's biggest backers, including people with ties to IBM and JPMorgan, will gather Wednesday to work on the biggest issue hobbling the technology behind digital currency -- the absence of grown-up governance. While growth of the internet was fostered by bodies such as the Internet Engineering Task Force, the Internet Governance Forum and the Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers, the blockchain technology that makes the bitcoin digital currency work lacks such support. Bloomberg Businessweek's Peter Coy has more on "Bloomberg Markets." (Source: Bloomberg)
August 12, 2016
When Will Central Banks Embrace Bitcoin?
August 10, 2016
The Lessons Learned From the Bitcoin Exchange Hacks
Bitcoin Donald John Trump
  by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
From The Web
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
My Snoring Solution
This game will keep you up all night!
Pirates: Free Online Game
Don't do it! The game that will have you hooked
Sparta Free Online Game
The Ultimate Way to Get Cheap Hotel Rooms
Save70
1,000,000 are using this app to learn a new language
Babbel
Wow! Insane Tracking Device - Never Lose Anything Again!
TrackR Bravo
Terms of Service Trademarks Privacy Policy ©2016 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved
Careers Made in NYC Advertise Ad Choices Website Feedback Help