https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/bitcoins-quiet-storm/
Bitcoin's Calm before a Storm? - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Altcoin NewsBitcoin AnalysisBitcoin Price News
Bitcoin’s Calm before a Storm?
Jim Fredrickson on 14/11/2016

Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
T
he Bitcoin market is relatively unchanged from yesterday.  A bit higher but nothing remarkable.  Here is the 8-hour chart we looked at yesterday:
As we can see, the 2nd arc of the pair provided support, but the top of the square has been solid resistance.  This leads us to the recurring question traders ask all the time”  Which will give first? Resistance or Support?
I continue to believe that the support will give first, for reasons discussed at length in recent columns.  In a nutshell, it’s because the 1st arc pair has already been violated 3 times.  I expect it is therefore highly likely that we will see a test of the 2nd arc pair.
If my working hypothesis that this is an A-B-C wave pattern is correct, then one more wave down to the area of the A low would be appropriate.  Anywhere in the yellow highlight would be tidy on several levels.
Here is the daily chart:
As you can see, price is still super-glued to the 3rd arc pair. Today marks 180 degrees from the start of the bull advance of 5/20 (yellow highlight).  My guess is that a sudden spike low will see a quick reversal, and the start of  the next rally.
But this is all speculative.  I would not trade on such speculation. I would not short a bull market, even though I believe a spike low is likely coming.  I have been burned by that trade far too many times.
As I have said in the recent past, I will wait for one of two things to happen, and then go long: A) buy after a  spike low followed by a rebound, or B) buy a successful and convincing close above 3rd arc resistance.  One of the two will likely happen in days (or less), not weeks.
Happy trading!
  Remember:  The author is a trader who is subject to all manner of error in judgement.  Do your own research, and be prepared to take full responsibility for your own trades.
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Altcoin News, Bitcoin Analysis, Bitcoin Price News, News Tagged in: Bitcoin price

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextProsecutors Charge Florida Man In Bitcoin Exchange Case Linked To JPMorgan Hacking Probe14/11/2016
PreviousBitcoin Thrives as China, India, Zimbabwe Plunge into Monetary Chaos14/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.