http://www.onlinecasinoreports.com/articles/coin-palace-casino-awarded-seal-of-approval.php
Coin Palace Casino Awarded Seal of Approval | Online Casino Reports
Toggle navigation
Rate it!
     9.8
$1200 Bonus Package
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.7
Bonus de Bienvenida
100% hasta $200
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.7
$200 Welcome Bonus
Code: SLOTS200
Get My Bonus


Home News
Coin Palace Casino Awarded Seal of Approval
Published November 5, 2016 by Mike P
Coin Palace Casino is the latest to gain the Seal of the Approval. This Bitcoin casino is highly rated, trustworthy, and offers many great games.
Another casino site has managed to attain Online Casino Reports’ (OCR) Seal of Approval. And the announcement is also notable for the fact that Coin Palace Casino is the first Bitcoin site to make the grade required for gaining approval. Bitcoin casinos have been rising gradually for some time now, and this is another major step towards the mainstream.
How Coin Palace Casino Qualified
Gaining the OCR Seal of Approval is a difficult feat, as casino sites are required to prove their qualities over many months. Initially, Coin Palace Casino had to have an OCR review of four stars or higher. Meanwhile, Coin Palace also had to be online for 12 months or more, and be present on OCR for at least eight months.
OCR adopts a try-monthly process to ensure that eligible casinos are tested regularly to guarantee their quality. Among the areas evaluated are the sign-up process, general speed, mobile availability, gaming software, and other factors. This process is to make sure that casinos that receive the OCR Seal of Approval will continue to commit to quality.
OCR is also fully committed to ensuring that players are treated well, which is why casinos with the Seal of Approval are not allowed to have unresolved complaints on our site or any other portal. If there are complaints, a casino must then commit to resolving matters within a quick and clear timeframe.
Coin Palace Qualities
The headline news is that Coin Palace is a Bitcoin casino, which means players have a highly secure payment system. After setting up a Bitcoin wallet, players can rapidly transfer deposits and withdrawals without submitting sensitive payment information.
Coin Palace is much more than just Bitcoin payments, as the site is powered by high-end software from developers such as Microgaming, SoftSwiss, BetSoft, NetEnt, Amatic Industries, and Ezugi. This group combines to give Coin Palace a diverse selection of games.
There are tables games, progressive jackpots, and video slots to enjoy across desktop or mobile devices. The slots are especially enticing thanks to the presence of titles like Blast Boom Bang, Satoshi’s Secret, The Ghouls, Mega Glam Life, and The Slotfather.
Mentioned in this article
Coin Palace Casino
See also
Casino Adrenaline Attains OCR Seal of Approval
21 Dukes Casino Receives the OCR Seal Of Approval
Jackpot Capital Casino and Casino Extreme Receive The OCR Seal of Approval
The True Significance of Online Casino Seals
Fruity Casa Casino Receives OCR Seal Of Approval

Bonuses
JACKPOT CITY CASINO
FREE SPINS BONUS
365
Exclusive
Free Slots Bonus
PLAY NOW
SPIN PALACE
NO DEPOSIT
Free Spins
20
Exclusive
Free Money Bonus
PLAY NOW
888 CASINO
BONUS PACKAGE
$1500
Code: Welcome1
  5 Deposits
PLAY NOW
YES! I WANT TO KNOW ABOUT EXCLUSIVE BONUSES, PROMOTIONS, AND NEWS.
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Navigation
Casinos
Bonuses
Games
Guides
News
Directory
Seal of Approval
Forum
Blacklisted Casinos
Popular Pages
Top Casinos
Exclusive Bonuses
No Deposit Bonuses
Mobile Casinos
Live Dealers
Free Casino Games
Progressive Jackpots
Live Streams
Apps
Games
Online Blackjack
Online Craps
Online Baccarat
Online Slots
Online Video Poker
Online Roulette
Online Hi-Lo
Online Casino Reports
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletter
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
Add Your Brand
Sitemap
Blog
Frequently Asked Questions
Responsible Gambling
International Sites


Online Casino Reports
onlinecasinoreports.com ©2016