http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/20/india-intelligence-agencies-concerned-bitcoin/
Intelligence Agencies in India Voice Concerns about Illegal Bitcoin Usage - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
11:10 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Intelligence Agencies in India Voice Concerns about Illegal Bitcoin Usage
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
39



The Reserve Bank of India will be working along with the government to address concerns voiced by the country's intelligence agencies regarding potential misuse of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies. Read more...
Bitcoin in India has been at the receiving end of a mixed response. The country’s central bank — Reserve Bank of India has grown to like the digital currency, whereas the intelligence agencies in the country are becoming more and more concerned about its potential illegal uses.
The Bitcoin community in the country is rejoicing, following some of the latest developments in the sector. As more people do their Diwali shopping with gift cards bought using Bitcoin, the intelligence agencies in the country have issued a warning about the potential use of digital currency to fund illegal activities in the country. They also expect hawala transactions to switch from fiat to Bitcoin for money laundering.
READ MORE: Bitcoin Adoption in India May Surge during Diwali Festival
With the intelligence community raising its concerns about the use of Bitcoin in the country, the Government of India has assured that it will be looking into the potential implications of Bitcoin and other digital currencies on national security and domestic law and order.
A leading Indian news outlet quoted a government official’s response saying,
“At present, we have no mechanism to deal with such mediums. The expertise from RBI will be used to come with specific measures to tackle such issues.”
The government will be working alongside Reserve Bank of India to come up with adequate safeguards to prevent the use of digital currencies for illegal activities. Officials have indicated that they have no plans to ban Bitcoin any time soon in the near future. But the idea is to implement enough checks and balances in the system so that the criminals don’t misuse Bitcoin and other digital currencies.
Bitcoin platforms in India have been working proactively with government bodies to ensure compliance with existing rules and regulations. Even though there are no set regulations governing Bitcoin and Bitcoin exchanges, the platforms are self-regulating by implementing AML and KYC compliance similar to that of banking and financial institutions.
As the digital currency revolution catches up with rest of the world, the Reserve Bank of India is expected to keep up with the changing economic and monetary landscape. The government-industry participation in this regard will make much easier for both parties to find a common ground without compromising the cryptocurrency ecosystem of the national economy.
Ref: Economic Times | Image: NewsBTC
39
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×