http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/12/connecticut-hacker-created-darknet-phishing-sites-steal-bitcoins/
Connecticut Hacker Created Darknet Phishing Sites To Steal Bitcoins
25-11-2016
08:55 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Connecticut Hacker Created Darknet Phishing Sites To Steal Bitcoins
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, Hacked, News
28



The investigation revealed Richo used Bitcoin Fog, a coin tumbler that allegedly provides anonymity. Once that process was completed, the “clean” Bitcoins would be sold through LocalBitcoins in exchange for US Dollars deposited into a bank account.
A resident of Connecticut has been arrested for stealing Bitcoins and phishing for deep web logins. By posting links to fake darknet marketplaces, Michael Richo managed to collect a large amount of platform logins from other deep web users. With this information, he was also able to access the original accounts, and empty bitcoin wallets if they contained any balance.
The FBI and other law enforcement agencies have been keeping a close eye on the darknet marketplace sector as of late. During one of their investigations, they came across a person building clone websites of platforms such as AlphaBay. As it turns out, these were deliberate phishing attempts to collect login information from users and hack their accounts.
Phishing The Darknet For Logins and Bitcoins
After being arrested by the New Haven Division cybercrime squad, it didn’t take long for Richo to admit he was running a phishing scheme. Moreover, he admitted he created the websites, submitted the links to popular platforms, and stealing Bitcoins. For now, it remains unclear where the links were posted, albeit Reddit and darknet forums seem to be likely candidates.
Once the username and password for a particular platform were collected, Richo would access that account on the legitimate website. He would then check all accounts for a Bitcoin wallet balance, and withdraw any funds that may be present. Richo also kept tabs on these accounts to monitor for any incoming deposits, and sluice those proceedings away as soon as possible.
To make matters even worse, Richo admitted to running a secondary scheme to steal Bitcoin wallet balances By using a tool he dubbed “Bitcoin monitor”, he could post links that would route all traffic through his own servers. Doing so allows him to monitor all user keystrokes, enabling him to steal even more Bitcoin funds.
Obtaining stolen funds is one thing, but converting it to untraceable currency is very difficult. The investigation revealed Richo used Bitcoin Fog, a coin tumbler that allegedly provides anonymity. Once that process was completed, the “clean” Bitcoins would be sold through LocalBitcoins in exchange for US Dollars deposited into a bank account.
For the time being, it remains unclear as to how much money was stolen in total. We do know nearly 10,000 usernames and passwords were in Richo’s possessions at the time of his arrest. This goes to show that, despite users going through the extra trouble of using Tor and other tools, are still vulnerable to these types of “traditional” attacks.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
28
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×