http://www.reuters.com/article/us-ecb-bitcoin-eu-idUSKCN12I1HC
ECB urges EU to curb virtual money on fear of losing control | Reuters
EDITION:
UNITED STATES
Business
Markets
World
Politics
Tech
Commentary
Breakingviews
Money
Life
BUSINESS NEWS | Tue Oct 18, 2016 | 8:44am EDT
ECB urges EU to curb virtual money on fear of losing control
The headquarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) are illuminated with a giant euro sign at the start of the ''Luminale, light and building'' event in Frankfurt, Germany, March 12, 2016. REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach/File Photo
By Francesco Canepa | FRANKFURT
The European Central Bank wants EU lawmakers to tighten proposed new rules on digital currencies such as bitcoin, fearing they might one day weaken its own control over money supply in the euro zone.
The European Commission's draft rules, aimed at fighting terrorism, require currency exchange platforms to increase checks on the identities of people exchanging virtual currencies for real ones and report suspicious transactions.
In a legal opinion published on Tuesday, the ECB said EU institutions should not promote the use of digital currencies and should make clear they lack the legal status of currency or money.
PUBLICIDAD
inRead invented by Teads
"The reliance of economic actors on virtual currency units, if substantially increased in the future, could in principle affect the central banks’ control over the supply of money ... although under current practice this risk is limited," the ECB said in the opinion for the European Parliament and Council.
"Thus (EU legislative bodies) should not seek in this particular context to promote a wider use of virtual currencies."
The ECB argues the Commission's proposal does not go far enough as it does not cover the use of virtual money to buy goods and services.
"Such transactions would not be covered by any of the control measures provided for in the proposal and could provide a means of financing illegal activities."
(Reporting by Francesco Canepa; Editing by Tom Heneghan)
NEXT IN BUSINESS NEWS
U.S. crowds pick up slightly on Black Friday, online sales jump
U.S. online sales surged on Black Friday, with Amazon.com Inc offering the steepest discounts among e-commerce sites as it set the agenda for what has traditionally been the biggest shopping day of the year for brick-and-mortar retailers.
Wall Street ends at record highs; dollar loses steam
NEW YORK Key stock indexes on Wall Street swept to record intraday and closing highs on Black Friday thanks to gains in consumer staple and technology shares, while European stocks climbed and a stabilization in U.S. Treasury yields promoted investors to sell the dollar.
MORE FROM REUTERS
Trump will get wake-up call when he takes office, Obama says
Ghost airplane attends banquet for new Airbus jet
Willing to oppose Trump, some Senate Republicans gain leverage
China goes global as Trump puts America first
Emirates Airline says some technical issues with Rolls-Royce A380 engines
SPONSORED CONTENT
FROM AROUND THE WEB
Promoted by Taboola
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Soldiers: Free Online Game
Financial incentives added to kick-start antibiotic product development
Global Health Action
Watch: An Amazing 360 Experience Of Abu Dhabi's Sights And Sounds
CNN for Abu Dhabi Tourism
L'Oreal-Proactive On Income Protection For Their Employees
Financial Times
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
My Snoring Solution
10 recettes originales pour un apéro réussi
Astuces Cuisine
TRENDING STORIES
1
Blue-collar Democrats to party: It's still the economy, stupid
2
U.S. opens door to oil exports after year of pressure
3
Russian ruble resumes recovery as exporters seen selling dollars
4
Brent and WTI see small gains as end of year approaches
5
U.S. consumer confidence rises in December
FOCUS 360
Video: Heading to space
SPONSORED TOPICS
Follow Reuters:
Follow Us On Twitter
Follow Us On Facebook
Follow Us On RSS
Follow Us On Instagram
Follow Us On YouTube
Follow Us On LinkedIn
Subscribe: Feeds | Newsletters | Podcasts | Apps
Reuters News Agency | Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters is the news and media division of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
EIKON
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface
ELEKTRON
Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management
WORLD-CHECK
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks
WESTLAW
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology
ONESOURCE
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
CHECKPOINT
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2016 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
Site Feedback Corrections Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines AdChoices Terms of Use Privacy Policy