http://themerkle.com/technical-maintenance-by-btc-e-causes-unjustified-panic-among-bitcoin-users/
Technical Maintenance By BTC-E Causes Unjustified Panic Among Bitcoin Users – The Merkle
About
Contact
Jobs
Privacy Policy
Team
Login Register 0 items - $0.00
NEWS
REVIEWS
EDUCATION
HomeNewsBlockchainTechnical Maintenance By BTC-E Causes Unjustified Panic Among Bitcoin Users
Technical Maintenance By BTC-E Causes Unjustified Panic Among Bitcoin Users
JP Buntinx October 2, 2016 Blockchain, Cryptocurrency, News
The BTC-E exchange has been down earlier today due to scheduled maintenance. As is usually the case when this happens, there is a lot of confusion and panic over what is going on. Many people assumed there was a security breach, but that does not appear to be the case. No funds are stolen, and everything should be working as normal once again.
BTC-E MAINTENANCE WAS SCHEDULED WELL AHEAD OF TIME
If people in the Bitcoin world did their homework properly, they would have known BTC-E had planned a technical maintenance between midnight and midday on October 2, 2016. All of the company services would be unavailable as this maintenance took place, which is only normal.
A lot of people were concerned about the exchange going offline for such an extended period. Every time a Bitcoin exchange goes down, people are concerned about the platform security, and what may happen to user funds. All of these concerns were invalid, though, as nothing malicious has gone on.



Some people may argue a downtime of 12 hours is unusually long, and plenty of reason for concern over funds. A technical maintenance can mean a lot of different things, and running a large-scale Bitcoin exchange is not so easy. Such an extended period also begs the question whether or not the company uses redundant servers to keep most functionality going.
Keeping in mind how BTC-E has been around since 2011, it is safe to say the company has a certain reputation in the Bitcoin space. While they are not too transparent regarding who runs the platform, and sometimes have to deal with strange issues, they are still alive to this very day.
It did not take long for someone to claim BTC-E has become insolvent. Even though there is zero evidence to back up this claim, it is not the first time such rumors are being spread. Despite what some people may want to believe, BTC-E is not going anywhere anytime soon.
Image credit 1
If you liked this article follow us on Twitter @themerklenews and make sure to subscribe to our newsletter to receive the latest bitcoin and altcoin price analysis and the latest cryptocurrency news.
Related Posts
Ripple Opens New London Office To Serve European Customers
Top UK Asset Management Firms Partner on Blockchain Project
The Ethereum Foundation Has Set a New Date for Blockchain Hard Fork
About The Author
Jdebunt
JP Buntinx is a 30-year old FinTech and Bitcoin enthusiast living in Belgium. His passion for finance and technology made him one of the world's leading freelance Bitcoin writers, and he is working to achieve the same level of respect in the FinTech sector.
SEARCH SITE
Search
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
Samsung Pay Incentivizes Users With New Rewards …
November 15, 2016
Visa Wants To Replace Passwords With Multiple …
November 15, 2016
OCBC Bank Pilots Blockchain-based Funds Transfer Between …
November 15, 2016
SUBSCRIBE
Subscribe to our mailing list
RECENT POSTS
Incent To Offer Its ICO Technology To Other Organizations Focusing On Loyalty Rewards November 25, 2016
Developing Nations Show A Great Appetite For Payment Card Acceptance November 25, 2016
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
CONNECT WITH US
The Merkle Copyright © 2016.