http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/15/komodo-anonymous-cryptocurrency-announces-launch-upcoming-ico/
Komodo Anonymous Cryptocurrency Announces the Launch of Its Upcoming ICO - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
11:02 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
CRYPTOCURRENCY ANALYSIS
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Downtrend Intact
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Showing Positive Signs
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Trend Bearish
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Buyers Make It?
ViaBTC Receives Mysterious 210 Bitcoin Deposit To Cloud Mining Address
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Komodo Anonymous Cryptocurrency Announces the Launch of Its Upcoming ICO
Author
Roshan Baig
Categories
Press Release
26



Bitcoin Press Release: Komodo, the anonymous cryptocurrency based on Bitcoin blockchain’s ZCash fork has announced the launch of its ICO.
Komodo, the cryptocurrency offering highest standards of anonymity and security has announced the launch of its ICO. The Komodo cryptocurrency ICO, starting October 15, 2016, will go on for 37 days until November 20, 2016. Those interested in participating in the ICO can buy Komodo cryptocurrency (KMD) with either Bitcoin (BTC) or BitcoinDark (BTCD).
The cryptocurrency forked from ZCash supports zero knowledge proofs secured by Bitcoin’s global hash rate. The delayed Proof of Work consensus mechanism developed by Komodo Platform enables the Komodo blockchain to be backed up on the Bitcoin blockchain. The custom transactions are broadcasted to the Bitcoin blockchain by the platform’s notary nodes. These notary nodes can be used by other cryptocurrencies to secure their own blockchain. Komodo already has an operational testnet in place, while the developers work on furthering the technology. More information is available in the recently released delayed Proof of Work whitepaper.
Komodo Platform draws inspiration from Bitshares and Steemit. In order to eliminate the use of PoW mining, Komodo blocks are created using Delegated Proof of Stake mechanism. The upcoming ICO will provide the much-required funds for the development of notary nodes. The ICO also offers an opportunity for the not so “tech savvy” members of the cryptocurrency community to gain a stake in ZCash technology, which otherwise is only possible through mining. Komodo Platform forecasts Zcash to trade at around $40 in the near future.
Since Komodo is a result of the research and development by BitcoinDark and SuperNET teams, BTCD users will be able to swap their holdings for KMD at a 50% bonus, relative to the average closing price in August. BTCD holders will also receive a special asset issued on the Komodo blockchain, that allows them to continue receiving dividends from Bitcoin Dark.
Komodo will start with a supply of 100 million KMDs, of which 90% will be distributed to investors during the ICO and the remaining 10% will be used for development, marketing, advisers, and bounties.
About Komodo
Komodo is a secure and anonymous cryptocurrency based on the ZCash fork. It is a result of the joint development effort between BitcoinDark and SuperNET teams.
Learn more about Komodo at – https://komodoplatform.com/
Find Komodo Whitepaper at – https://komodoplatform.com/whitepaper/
Komodo on Steem – https://steemit.com/@komodoplatform
Komodo on Bitcoin Talk – https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1605144.0
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
26
Company Contact
Company Name
Komodo
Representative Name
António Madeira
Email
press@komodoplatform.com
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.