http://blogs.barrons.com/incomeinvesting/2016/10/04/bill-gross-says-central-bankers-are-gambling-against-the-house/
Bill Gross Says Central Bankers are Betting Against the House - Income Investing - Barrons.com
WSJ
WSJ
WSJ Live
WSJ Live
MarketWatch
MarketWatch
Barron's
Facebook
Twitter
Product X
Product X
Mansion Global
Mansion Global
More
SEARCH
ASIA EDITION
U.S. EDITION
Subscribe
Log In
HOME
MAGAZINE
DAILY
INVESTING IDEAS
ADVISOR CENTER
MARKET DATA
PENTA
BARRON'S NEXT
Income Investing
News, analysis and commentary on income-generating investments.
October 4, 2016, 9:36 A.M. ET
Bill Gross Says Central Bankers are Betting Against the House
By Amey Stone
Central bankers are like gamblers who keep trying to “double down,” – doubling a bet after losing – because they believe they will eventually win, writes veteran Janus portfolio manager Bill Gross in a new monthly commentary.
Since central banks have unlimited funds, they have gone to extremes in their quest to ignite economic growth by lowering rates. Gross argues:
How else would one characterize the “whatever it takes” statement by Mario Draghi in 2014? How else would one interpret BOJ’s Kuroda when just last week he upped the ante in Japan by capping 10 year JGB’s at 0% until inflation exceeds 2% per year? How else would a rational observer describe Carney and Yellen other than “Martingale gamblers with a wallet or a purse?” Our financial markets have become a Vegas/Macau/Monte Carlo casino, wagering that an unlimited supply of credit generated by central banks can successfully reflate global economies and reinvigorate nominal GDP growth to lower but acceptable norms in today’s highly levered world.
Where is this leading for investors? Perhaps to them abandoning financial markets in favor of Bitcoin or gold. He writes:
At some point investors – leery and indeed weary of receiving negative or near zero returns on their money, may at the margin desert the standard financial complex, for higher returning or better yet, less risky alternatives. Bitcoin and privately agreed upon block chain technologies amongst a small set of global banks, are just a few examples of attempts to stabilize the value of their current assets in future purchasing power terms. Gold would be another example – historic relic that it is.
He believes this is all likely to end very badly. He concludes his piece:
Investors/savers are now scrappin’ like mongrel dogs for tidbits of return at the zero bound. This cannot end well.
Gross is the portfolio manager of Janus Unconstrained Bond (JUCAX).
« Previous
Auto Sales Slowing; Could Sales Rate Go Back to 16M per Year?
Next »
MLP and Energy Prices Barely Budged in 3rd Quarter
INCOME INVESTING HOME PAGE
Add a Comment
Name
We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines. Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.
Comment
Be the first to leave a comment on this blog.
Most Recent Posts
Preferreds: Value is There, But Selling Pressure Remains
Nice Friday Bounce for BDCs, Including PennantPark
Fridson: High Yield Still Extremely Overvalued, But Less So
More Posts
About Income Investing
Barrons.com’s Income Investing blog helps readers find undervalued securities that offer attractive yields, with an emphasis on dividend-paying stocks, preferred shares, bonds, REITs, Master Limited Partnerships and closed-end funds.
Amey Stone is Barron’s Income Investing blogger and Current Yield columnist. She was formerly a managing editor at CBS MoneyWatch, MSN Money and AOL DailyFinance. Her responsibilities included overseeing market coverage and personal finance topics. Prior to those roles, she was a senior writer at BusinessWeek where she authored the Street Wise column online and contributed to the magazine’s Inside Wall Street column. Topics covered included economics, corporate finance, Fed policy, municipal bonds, mutual funds and dividend investing. She co-authored King of Capital, a biography of Citigroup Chairman Sandy Weill. She is a graduate of Yale University and Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism.
Write to Amey at Amey.Stone@barrons.com
  Barron's Stocks to Watch
Another Record Close for the Dow, the S&P 500…and the Nasdaq!
Chowdhry: ‘Trump is a God-Sent Gift to Tesla—Make American Manufacturing Sexy Again’
Why Did Amazon Blend Islam, Christianity & Shopping In Holiday Ad?
Focus on Funds
A.M. Roundup: Invesco and Pimco Buy Up EM Debt; Virtu Urges SEC to Examine ETFs
Hedge Fund Assets Grow to $3.2T; Performance Offset Outflows
Speculators & Oil Prices: Don’t Believe The Hype
Tech Trader Daily
Amazon Cloud Conference to Feature Machine Learning Bits, Says Evercore ISI
Analog Devices, Microsemi: Analog Chip Recovery in Swing, Says Wells
Intel’s Still Ahead of the Pack in Chip Process, Says Linley Group
Barron's
Facebook
Twitter
Googgle+
LinkedIn
YouTube
RSS Feed
AppStore
Google Play
RETURN TO TOP«
Customer Service
Customer Center
Contact Us
Live Help
Create an Account
Subscribe to Barron's
Magazine Subscribers:
Activate Your Digital Access
About Barrons.com
Advertising
Masthead
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Data Policy
Copyright Policy
Subscriber Agreement
& Terms of Use
Your Ad Choices
Community Rules
Also From Barron's
Conferences
Reprints
Classifieds
College Program
Find a Broker
Barron's in Japanese
Tools & Services
Mobile Site
Email Newsletters
Barron's on iPad/iPhone
Barron's on Android
Watchlist
Video
StockGrader
Barron's 400
Economic Calendar
Stock & Mutual Fund Listings
Commodities, Options
& Annuities Listings
ACAP Enabled
Copyright ©2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.