http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/it-is-now-much-easier-to-order-bitcoin-cards-on-unichangeme-300339272.html
It is Now Much Easier to Order Bitcoin Cards on Unichange.me
Contact Us
Journalists
Blog
Log In
Sign Up
Send a Release
News
Solutions
Resources
Search
News in Focus
Business & Money
Science & Tech
Lifestyle & Health
Policy & Public Interest
People & Culture
It is Now Much Easier to Order Bitcoin Cards on Unichange.me
The peer-to-peer digital currency exchange platform Unichange.me has now made it much simpler to order Bitcoin cards from its platform.
NEWS PROVIDED BY
Unichange.me
Oct 04, 2016, 19:16 ET
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
BUCHAREST, Romania, Oct. 4, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Unichange.me, the peer-to-peer exchange platform has announced a new updated card ordering procedure, enabling its customers to order Bitcoin cards with just two clicks. The new process is a result of incessant hard work on Unichange.me technical team's part to improve customer experience on the platform.
Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20161004/415201
To place an order for the Bitcoin card, Unichange.me customers have to go through the following steps;
Step 1: Choose the type of card, delivery type, and payment method.
Step 2: Check payment info and then click "Submit".
With this new card ordering procedure in place, the first Bitcoin card order requires no more than a cell phone confirmation.
As soon as the card is activated, users will be able to withdraw Bitcoin, Litecoin, BTC-e USD, Perfect Money USD/EUR, OkPay USD and FasaPay IDR/USD at the best fees.
In addition to physical Bitcoin cards, Unichange.me also offers virtual cards that can be ordered much faster, with just one click on the "Order Card Now" button. Upon completion of order, the virtual card will be delivered to the users' e-mail. The current on-going special promotion allows users to order a Unichange.me virtual digital currency card for free. The virtual cryptocurrency cards can be funded the same way as physical cards with a choice of electronic and cryptocurrencies.
 Why Unichange Debit and Virtual Cards?
The Unichange.me card is a perfect solution for traders and businesses dealing with digital currencies like Bitcoin, Litecoin, BTC-e USD Codes etc.
Save time with faster withdrawals – Withdrawals to Unichange.me debit and virtual cards can be completed in less than an hour, which otherwise may take anywhere between 1-6 days.
Cost saving – The cryptocurrency cards offered by Unichange.me are cheaper with minimal withdrawal fees. Detailed information about fees and limits are available here.
Customer convenience – In addition to faster withdrawals and cheaper fees, customer convenience also plays an important role in the company's decision to revamp the card ordering process. Those ordering physical Bitcoin cards from Unichange.me will also get a virtual card for free which can be used for online transactions until the former gets delivered. Once the physical card is received, the user can also transfer funds from the virtual card to the physical card.
Unichange.me Bitcoin card is available for everyone. Users can register on Unichange.me at this link, verify the cell phone and get a virtual card in less than 10 minutes, ready for extremely fast Bitcoin to card transfers.
About Unichange.me
Unichange.me is an innovative P2P exchange provider. The platform, dedicated to providing quality service is involved in developing a positive customer experience for the digital commerce ecosystem. The platform has a strong team with experienced players from the e-currency exchange market. Unichange.me supports multiple electronic currencies and offers a range of convenient withdrawal options to its customers.
Know more about Unichange.me at – https://unichange.me/
Media Contact
Contact Name: David Jr
Contact Email: pr@unichange.me
Location: Romania, Bucharest
Unichange.me is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only. The information does not constitute investment advice or an offer to invest.
Related Images
image1.jpg
image2.jpg
Related Links
Bitcoin PR Buzz
Unichange.me
Related Video
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2tEqybmUHc
This content was issued through the press release distribution service at Newswire.com. For more info visit: http://www.newswire.com
SOURCE Unichange.me
Related Links
https://unichange.me

Also from this source
AUG 03, 2016, 19:09 ET
Unichange.me Shares Tips for Traders: How to Withdraw Bitcoin...
Explore
More news releases in similar topics
Computer Electronics
Electronic Commerce
Banking & Financial Services
You just read:
It is Now Much Easier to Order Bitcoin Cards on Unichange.me
NEWS PROVIDED BY
Unichange.me
Oct 04, 2016, 19:16 ET
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
Contact
888-776-0942
from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
Chat Online with an Expert
Contact Us
Solutions
Cision Communication Cloud™
For Marketers
For Public Relations
For IR & Compliance
For Agency
For Small Business
All Products
About
About PR Newswire
About Cision
Become a Publishing Partner
Become a Channel Partner
Careers
  Global Sites
My Services
All News Releases
Online Member Center
ProfNet℠

Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Information Security Policy Statement
Site Map
RSS Feeds
Copyright © 2016 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Cision company.
News
News in Focus
Business & Money
Science & Tech
Lifestyle & Health
Policy & Public Interest
People & Culture