http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/16/western-union-charges-10-domestic-us-transfer-fee-gets-away/
Western Union Charges A 10% Domestic US Transfer Fee And Gets Away With it
25-11-2016
11:06 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Western Union Charges A 10% Domestic US Transfer Fee And Gets Away With it
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News, Opinion
30



Although it is not uncommon to charge high fees when sending money to foreign countries, this 10% fee applies to domestic transfers.
If anyone ever needed more indication of how expensive Western Union is, look no further. Various Walmart stores across the US have a WU office, where people can send money to other citizens in the US with ease. Unfortunately, this service is rather expensive, as sending up to US$50 is subject to a near 10% fee. Not the solution most people would be looking for, and another reason to get involved in Bitcoin.

Most people are well aware of how sending money around the world can be a costly business. Remittance solutions are convenient, sure, but they are also expensive in most cases. Western Union, perhaps the largest money transfer service in the world, is best known for their high fees.
Western Union Remains Ridiculously Expensive
A recent image surfaced on Reddit, showing how the company charges a 10% fee for sending money within the US. That is, when visiting a local branch in a Walmart store. It is not uncommon for customers to pay for convenience when sending money around the world, but this percentile is astonishingly high.
Although it is not uncommon to charge high fees when sending money to foreign countries, this 10% tax applies to domestic transfers.  Sending US$50 from Miami to Chicago would effectively result in a US$5 fee. It is a mystery as to why people seem to have no issue with the stranglehold this company has on the money transfer market.
Everyone can see Bitcoin transfers are a lot cheaper when it comes to sending money around the world. It would cost a few cents to send any amount to anywhere, regardless of domestic or international transfers. More importantly, Bitcoin does not require users to trust a third-party company with their information when sending money. Cryptocurrency is a major competitor for Western Union and consorts; that much is certain.
But Bitcoin is not the only competitor to services such as Western Union.Regular postal money orders are a lot cheaper to deal with, and they can be delivered to one’s home address. At the same time, users would still have to deposit the money order at their bank office. But that is still a lot cheaper than dealing with companies who charge outrageous amounts.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
30
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×