https://coinreport.net/bitcoin-conference-labitconf-held-nov-4-5/
CoinReport Bitcoin conference laBITconf to be held on Nov. 4-5
Home
Sitemap
Editorial Guidelines
About Us
Contact
Advertising
HOME
NEWS
INTERVIEWS
LIFESTYLE
WEEKLY
TOP 5
EVENTS
COIN 101
HOW-TO’S
PRESS RELEASES
Bitcoin conference laBITconf to be held on Nov. 4-5
Posted On 22 Oct 2016By : Tabish FarazComment: 0Tag: Anthony Di Iorio, Bitcoin Conference, Bitcoin’s mining power, Daniel Diaz, Diego Gutierrez Zaldivar, laBITconf, Rodolfo Andragnes
The Piazzola Tango Theater in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
The fourth annual laBITconf will be attended by more than 60 industry leaders and almost 50% of bitcoin’s mining power on November 4-5 at the century-old Piazzola Tango Theater in Buenos Aires, Argentina, according to a press release CoinReport received.
One of today’s most innovative financial technologies – cryptocurrency – and its limitless potential, challenges and opportunities ahead will be discussed at the Latin American bitcoin conference.
“The conference aims to explore the endless opportunities that lie within digital currency and its integral component, blockchain. Year on year we see hundreds of visitors congregate at our show from every corner of the globe to gain an insight into the exciting and innovative developments being made and the opportunities in Latin America,” said Diego Gutierrez Zaldivar, co-founder and CEO at RSK Labs and co-founder of ONG Bitcoin Argentina, organizers of the event.
In a recent Bitcoin Market Potential Industry (BMPI) report, Argentina is ranked first in the list of countries with the highest potential for bitcoin adoption. This November, laBITconf returns to Buenos Aires for the first time since 2013, after previously being held in Mexico City and Rio de Janeiro.
“Since its adoption, Bitcoin has flourished in Latin America, with Argentina leading the way. Due to numerous years of economic strife, the country became a haven for innovators to explore and develop solutions to the financial troubles. Numerous businesses, mostly hotels, began to use Bitcoin as a form of payment and ever since then, the rate of Bitcoin transactions continues to increase and the attention towards its underlying blockchain technology continues to grow,” said Rodolfo Andragnes, the coordinator of the conference.
“We chose Buenos Aires because the new government is open to understanding and promoting this technology.”
In addition to tackling the issues of digital currency regulation and compliance and the ever growing impact of digital currencies on society, the conference this year will also take on the issue of implementation of blockchain in global banking.
According to the press release we received, speakers include Andreas Antonopoulos, Peter Todd, Anthony Di Iorio, Erik Voorhees, Trace Mayer, Sergio Lerner, IBM, Microsoft and representatives of five of the largest mining companies, among many others.
Jaxx founder and CEO Anthony Di Iorio
Keynote speaker Anthony Di Iorio, CEO of Decentral and Jaxx, said in the release, “laBITconf is a wonderful event that not only welcomes Bitcoin veterans but also industry newcomers to network with one another and build off of their innovative ideas. It is an honor be included as a speaker in addition to some of the most prominent figures in Fintech, all of whom are revolutionizing industries and paving the way for a brighter future powered by cryptocurrency.”
Daniel Diaz, VP of Business Development for Dash, a Platinum Sponsor of laBITconf, added, “laBITconf is a great conference because it provides education, adoption and an opportunity for business relationships and friendships. The Latin American market is a fertile ground for digital currencies; the political and financial situation in some countries in the region make alternative financial services more appealing to this market. People have suffered directly from inflation, capital controls and political instability for years, so we are speaking to an audience that is extremely receptive to the advantages digital currencies can offer.”
Image credits:
The Piazzola Tango Theater via laBITconf.com
Anthony Di Iorio’s photo courtesy of Jaxx via PR firm Wachsman PR
11
2
About the Author
Tabish has been writing/editing professionally for over a decade. Louisiana Department of Education taught one of his articles to students of its career diploma course 'Film in America' after adding the article in its comprehensive curriculum. Tabish is the Publishing Editor for CoinReport and believes Bitcoin has a great future. Follow Tabish on Twitter @mdtabish
Previous Story
Bitcoin exchange CEX.IO launches BTC, ETH margin trading with risk-preventing system
Next Story
IBM, Walmart, Tsinghua University study blockchain’s use for safer food across China
Related Posts
Dash integrated into Living Room of Satoshi
Blockchain wallet Jaxx to add litecoin to all platforms
Apple approves steem, lisk, digicash on App Store
Mycelium adds Dash; integration will come into effect in Oct.
Leave a Reply
Name
*
Email
*
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
DAILY NEWS UPDATES
Enter your email address to subscribe to CoinReport and receive latest news notifications in email.
Email Address
FREE EBOOK
Bitcoin (BTC) 739.48 USD ↓
Bitcoin (BTC) 701.53 EUR ↑
Bitcoin (BTC) 5195.55 CNY ↑
Litecoin (LTC) 3.91 USD ↑
Updated 25 November 2016 22:36:02 UTC+0:00
Powered by Cryptonator
RECENT NEWS
Fluent, now Hijro, announces blockchain trade asset marketplace
Posted On21 Nov 2016
PwC launches digital asset services
Posted On20 Nov 2016
Blockchain may increase money laundering risk, warns Hong Kong central bank
Posted On13 Nov 2016
Shopawl adds AliExpress to stores list
Posted On13 Nov 2016
Dash integrated into Living Room of Satoshi
Posted On06 Nov 2016
Fluent wins Solution Showcase at 26th BAFT Annual Conference on International Trade
Posted On06 Nov 2016
CoinAgenda announces winners of startup competition
Posted On04 Nov 2016
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK
Online Privacy Policy Agreement Copyright 2014 CoinReport. All rights reserved. Terms of Service
11
2