http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/07/bitcoin-price-technical-analysis-btcusd-approaching-break/
Bitcoin Price Watch; BTC/USD Approaching Break - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
07:09 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Price Watch; BTC/USD Approaching Break
Author
Aayush Jindal
Categories
Analysis, Bitcoin, Opinion, Trading
28



Bitcoin price is currently trading in a range against the US Dollar, and it looks like the BTC/USD pair is approaching a crucial break ahead.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Key Points
Bitcoin price after trading from $758 to $665 started a recovery and moved back above $700.
There is a contracting triangle pattern formed on the hourly chart (data feed from SimpleFX) of BTC/USD, calling for a break.
The price is currently trading above a crucial support area, which once broken may open the doors for more upsides.
Bitcoin price is currently trading in a range against the US Dollar, and it looks like the BTC/USD pair is approaching a crucial break ahead.
Bitcoin Price Range
There was a minor correction pattern in Bitcoin price during the past 2-3 days against the US Dollar, as it moved from $758 to $665. The price started to correct higher, and moved above the 23.6% Fib retracement level of the last leg from the $758 high to $665 low. However, the price was seen struggling to gain traction above the $710 level, and started trading in a range.
There is a breakout pattern formed, as there is a contracting triangle pattern on the hourly chart (data feed from SimpleFX) of BTC/USD. The triangle upper trend line is coinciding with the 50% Fib retracement level of the last leg from the $758 high to $665 low. So, it holds a lot of importance, and it won’t be easy for the buyers to break it. Moreover, the price is currently struggling to clear the 100 hourly simple moving average. It is currently acting as a resistance, and pushing the price down towards the lower trend line.
On the downside, the triangle lower trend line is acting as a support at the moment. But, there are higher changes of it breaking and opening the doors for a downside move.
Looking at the technical indicators:
Hourly MACD – The MACD is currently flat, but about to move in the bearish zone.
Hourly RSI (Relative Strength Index) – The RSI has just moved below the 50 level, which is a concern.
Major Support Level – $700
Major Resistance Level – $715
  Charts courtesy – SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
28
PUBLISHED BY
Aayush Jindal
Aayush has spent over seven years as a financial markets contributor and observer. He specializes in market strategies and technical analysis, comes with an IT background. He possess strong technical analytical skills and is well known for his entertaining and informative analysis of the currency and commodities markets. He is a software engineer by profession, loves blogging and observing financial markets. View all posts by Aayush Jindal
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.