http://themerkle.com/number-of-bitcoin-atms-has-more-than-doubled-in-past-18-months/
Number of Bitcoin ATMs Has More Than Doubled In Past 18 Months – The Merkle
About
Contact
Jobs
Privacy Policy
Team
Login Register 0 items - $0.00
NEWS
REVIEWS
EDUCATION
HomeNewsCryptocurrencyNumber of Bitcoin ATMs Has More Than Doubled In Past 18 Months
Number of Bitcoin ATMs Has More Than Doubled In Past 18 Months
JP Buntinx October 1, 2016 Cryptocurrency, News
The Bitcoin ATM market is a very competitive space, and devices are being rolled out every month. The growth between March 2015 and September 2016 has been quite spectacular, as the number of devices has more than doubled. Unfortunately, the majority of them are still deployed in developed regions, where bitcoin may not make a big impact anytime soon.
A BOOMING BITCOIN ATM MARKET WITH DRAWBACKS
One thing Bitcoin ATMs have going for them is how easy they make it to buy cryptocurrency with cash. Using a Bitcoin exchange, which is still the dominant method of getting involved in cryptocurrency, requires users to send wire transfers or rely on payment cards. These processes, however, are quite slow and can be subject to hefty fees.
This partially explains the continual growth of the Bitcoin ATM market. A lot of companies are deploying these machines on a regular basis in the hopes of getting more people interested in Bitcoin. Even Deloitte recently added a Bitcoin ATM to their premises, which goes to show that cryptocurrency is a topic kicked around at the water cooler.
Looking at the numbers themselves, there were 353 Bitcoin ATMs in March of 2015–quite a strong number, even though Bitcoin has not gone mainstream just yet. However, this was only the beginning, as the number of Bitcoin ATMs has been on the rise ever since. In fact, the amount of machines in circulation has more than doubled over the past 18 months.
What is rather unfortunate is where these Bitcoin ATMs have been deployed. The vast 1majority of devices is located in the US and Canada, both of which are countries where Bitcoin will not make a mainstream impact anytime soon. Individual users and companies have plenty of payment options to choose from, and Bitcoin may not offer them something that other providers will not.
Developing regions could benefit a lot more from Bitcoin ATM deployment. Countries where cash is the dominant payment method and financial inclusion is next to non-existent are breeding grounds for alternative finance. Getting the ATMs shipped to those regions and keeping them in operation will be a logistical challenge, though.
Image credit 1
If you liked this article, follow us on Twitter @themerklenews and make sure to subscribe to our newsletter to receive the latest bitcoin and altcoin price analysis and the latest cryptocurrency news.
Related Posts
Bitcoin May Gain Regulatory Approval From Malta Gaming Authority Soon
Paying To Comment On News Sites With Bitcoin?
Mainstream Media In Venezuela Condemns Bitcoin
About The Author
Jdebunt
JP Buntinx is a 30-year old FinTech and Bitcoin enthusiast living in Belgium. His passion for finance and technology made him one of the world's leading freelance Bitcoin writers, and he is working to achieve the same level of respect in the FinTech sector.
SEARCH SITE
Search
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
Samsung Pay Incentivizes Users With New Rewards …
November 15, 2016
Visa Wants To Replace Passwords With Multiple …
November 15, 2016
OCBC Bank Pilots Blockchain-based Funds Transfer Between …
November 15, 2016
SUBSCRIBE
Subscribe to our mailing list
RECENT POSTS
Incent To Offer Its ICO Technology To Other Organizations Focusing On Loyalty Rewards November 25, 2016
Developing Nations Show A Great Appetite For Payment Card Acceptance November 25, 2016
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
CONNECT WITH US
The Merkle Copyright © 2016.