http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/08/students-weigh-bitcoin-vs-ethereum-investment-debate/
Students To Weigh in On Bitcoin Vs Ethereum Investment Debate
25-11-2016
07:13 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Students To Weigh in On Bitcoin Vs Ethereum Investment Debate
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Altcoins, Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
63



Whether Bitcoin and Ethereum are rivals, complementary, or two separate entities, remains a topic of debate. The next five years could be critical for both ecosystems.
For quite some time now, there has been a debate on whether Ethereum will overtake bitcoin or not. Even though comparing the two cryptocurrencies is unfair, it looks like people favor Bitcoin to increase in value. An upcoming Kraken Investment Case Study will provide some valuable insights as to how this comparison will play out.
Answering the question of “Bitcoin or Ethereum?” seems a bit futile, yet it sparks interesting debates. Kraken, one of the biggest cryptocurrency exchanges in the world, wants to conduct a case study. This entire project revolves around Bitcoin and Ethereum, as well as developing a proper investment strategy for either currency.
Teams from universities around the world have been able to submit a proposal to solve this investment issue. Among these proposals, three winners will be selected, and awarded with prizes. A People’s Choice Award will be handed out as well, together with a US$3,000 prize.
Should You Invest in Bitcoin or Ethereum?
The case study itself is quite intriguing. Students have to assume they can invest US$1m in both Bitcoin and Ethereum combined. However, the question becomes how much of each currency they buy, and the reasoning behind it. Things are not as black-and-white in cryptocurrency, and everyone has their own reasons for doing something.
Since both projects are great examples of blockchain technology, the choice is not easily made. However, there are very few other similarities between Bitcoin and Ethereum. An investment strategy for either or both cryptocurrencies is not as straightforward as going 50/50.
Bitcoin has more real-life use value than Ethereum does right now. At the same time, Ethereum is solving technical issues, rather than focusing on the financial side by default. Both technologies have their merits, but they are perceived very differently by investors. This also means it will affect the submissions to the Kraken Investment Case Study.
Whether Bitcoin and Ethereum are rivals, complementary, or two separate entities, remains a topic of debate. The next five years could be critical for both ecosystems. Bitcoin has been around longer, yet faces a lingering block size crisis. Ethereum, while still relatively new, offers little use for Ether tokens. Then again, these scenarios could change significantly in the coming five years.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
62
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.