https://cointelegraph.com/press-releases/vdice-publishes-code-audit-for-ico
vDice Publishes Code Audit for ICO
Toggle navigation
BTC
738.33
0.33%
ETH
9.45
1.2%
Advertise
  2016-10-23 02:05 PM
Author Cointelegraph
vDice Publishes Code Audit for ICO
This is a paid press relase. CoinTelegraph does not endorse and is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy, quality, advertising, products or other materials on this page. Readers should do their own research before taking any actions related to the company. CoinTelegraph is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.
PRESS RELEASE
The vDice Crowdsale (ICO) starts on November 15th.
This ICO on Ethereum is highly anticipated.
vDice is the world's 1st Fully Decentralized Gambling Game. It’s live already, processing bets on Ethereum.
Using the power of Blockchain and Ethereum Smart Contracts; vDice is a revolution in internet gambling.
Online gambling is a multi-billion dollar industry. Like music and publishing, it’s about to be disrupted, by vDice and decentralisation.
vDice is one of the only working Dapps on Ethereum, processing transactions. People want to know how vDice works and how it is secure.
The vDice team has published a full, independent, 3rd party code audit.
The audit is by blockchain security expert Peter Vessenes.
Peter is well respected as a blockchain expert. His security blog gained attention when he started reporting on the code flaws in the DAO very early.
Jason Colby, who was in the original Ethereum team, is now on vDice:
“Peter’s technical contributions to blockchain are well respected. It was an honour to have him contribute to vDice."
vDice is one of the most popular Dapps. Making secure Dapps for Ethereum is something vDice takes seriously.
Peter is also auditing the code for the vDice Crowdsale (ICO).
The vDice unique token, called ‘vSlice’ uses the same smart contract technology, tied to their revolutionary platform.
###
Company name: vDice
Company site: http://crowdsale.vdice.io
Email: vdiceio@gmail.com
vDice
Comments
Hottest Bitcoin News Daily
For updates and exclusive offers, enter your e-mail below.