http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/09/techcrunch-new-series-on-cryptocurrencies-and-blockchain-technology/
TechCrunch Creates a New Series on Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:55 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
TechCrunch Creates a New Series on Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology
Author
Gautham
Categories
Uncategorized
112



TechCrunch's new series on Bitcoin and blockchain to be available on the platform's YouTube channel, starting Monday. Read more...
Bitcoin is probably the hottest invention of the last decade. At the current rate of growth, combined with its limitless potential, Bitcoin’s underlying blockchain technology may become the most disruptive revolutionary technological invention of this century.  Irrespective of individual opinions, it is impossible to ignore the cryptocurrency revolution. TechCrunch, the online technology magazine is convinced of Bitcoin’s legacy.
Acknowledging the popularity of Bitcoin and blockchain technology, TechCrunch has recently announced the release of its own upcoming series, “Trust Disrupted” on cryptocurrencies. The six-episode series is set to air on the platform’s YouTube channel starting Monday, 10th of October 2016.  According to TechCrunch’s announcement, the series will be featuring Nathaniel Popper, the well-known reporter from New York Times. Nathaniel has already made a name for himself in the Bitcoin community with his book, “Digital Gold: Bitcoin and the Inside Story of the Misfits and Millionaires Trying to Reinvent Money”. The TechCrunch series is said to be based on the very book.
In addition to Nathaniel and his book, the series will also feature some of the well-known Bitcoin developers, influencers, and scholars. TechCrunch has already given a brief outline of the plot for each of the six episodes.
Episode 1: About the creation of Bitcoin and the blockchain.
Episode 2: Coverage of the global Bitcoin mining network, miners, and the governance system.
Episode 3: Centralization vs Decentralization —   Handling traffic on the network.
Episode 4: Rise of digital currency and its acceptance in mainstream financial institutions.
Episode 5: Ethereum, its potential, and the recent hack.
Episode 6: Open blockchain vs Closed blockchain.
The first two episodes will be released together on Monday, followed by a new episode every week.
Bitcoin has now become part of popular culture. Increasingly television shows and movies are including references of Bitcoin or cryptocurrencies. While the NBC’s series, Mr. Robot includes references to Bitcoin and “ECoin” (a fictional digital currency), Sony’s StartUp series revolves around a cryptocurrency startup where the cryptocurrency in question shares lots of similarities with Bitcoin in its early days of adoption.
On the brighter side, these popular references and informative video series like TechCrunch’s “Trust Disrupted” may create awareness among people, driving mass adoption of Bitcoin.
Ref: TechCrunch | Image: TechCrunch on Flickr
  112
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.