http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/30/eth-etc-monero-crash-bitcoin-surges/
Ethereum, Ethereum Classic and Monero Crash as Bitcoin Surges - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
06:10 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Global
Ethereum, Ethereum Classic and Monero Crash as Bitcoin Surges
Author
Gautham
Categories
Altcoins, Bitcoin News, News
188



As Bitcoin price continues to enjoy an upward thrust, Ethereum, Ethereum Classic and Monero continue to struggle. Read more...
Bitcoin is heading towards clear blue skies. A 12.5 percent appreciation of the digital asset over a period of one week is no joke. While it is good news for Bitcoin, the same can’t be said for other promising cryptocurrencies.
Ethereum
Ethereum has been having its fair share of problems even before the increase of Bitcoin price. Under sustained attack, transactions on the Ethereum network almost came to a standstill, with each transaction taking hours if not days for execution. The cryptocurrency, opening at over $13 at the beginning of this month fell over a period of time following a couple of surges in between to hit a low of $10. The value of Ethereum in the past one week alone has fallen by 14 percent.
Ethereum Classic
Ethereum Classic is an offshoot of the Ethereum blockchain, created after Ethereum decided to hard fork the blockchain. Sharing the same DNA, Ethereum Classic wasn’t immune to some of the attacks faced by Ethereum. Over a period of one month, the value of Ethereum Classic has fallen by more than 26 percent. The digital currency opened at $1.26 in the beginning of this month. Now it is trading at $0.90 after briefly touching $1.20 last week. Ethereum Classic also recently introduced a hard fork to counter the attack on its platform.
READ MORE: Ethereum Classic to Get a Hard Fork of Its Own
Monero
The sixth largest cryptocurrency in terms of market capitalization, Monero was briefly considered as the next promising cryptocurrency. Based on CryptoNote, Monero is known for its privacy and anonymity. These features led to its adoption by few dark net marketplaces.  The currency reached its peak at $14.23 last month. However, it was short-lived. Since last month, the digital currency has lost over 65 percent of its value to trade at $4.86. In the past week alone, Monero has lost over 25 percent in value.
READ MORE: Monero Challenges Bitcoin to Become Darknet Currency
It is worth noting that all the three cryptocurrencies are relatively much younger than Bitcoin. Bitcoin has had a long time to reach this stage. Thanks to increased acceptance, it has almost achieved mainstream status. There are still hopes for the rest, but it will be long before they can reach where Bitcoin is right now.
Ref: CoinMarketCap | Image: ShutterStock
188
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×