http://www.coindesk.com/state-street-winklevoss-bitcoin-etf-sec-filing/
Winklevoss Brothers Tap State Street for Key Bitcoin ETF Role - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$729
$734
$739
USD -0.03%
$738.05
CNY 0.2%
¥5,195.24
EUR €696.64
GBP £591.28
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
BANKING  •  EXCHANGES  •  NEWS
Winklevoss Brothers Tap State Street for Key Bitcoin ETF Role
Pete Rizzo (@pete_rizzo_) | Published on October 19, 2016 at 01:10 GMT
NEWS
368
73
32
State Street has been tapped to help launch the first bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF).
In a new SEC filing, State Street is now listed as the administrator and transfer agent for the Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust, a proposed bitcoin ETF backed by investors Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the founders of the Gemini bitcoin exchange.
According to the filing, State Street would be responsible for the "day-to-day administration of the Trust" when it is launched, as well as maintaining its books of account and calculating the Trust’s net-asset value (NAV), or the value per share of the offering.
Also noteworthy are other changes that address questions that have come up during the filing's still ongoing comment period.
For example, the filing indicates the ETF would use a "purpose-built" system to verify that the associated custodians hold control of the private cryptographic keys that would allow them to transition ownership.
The new documentation touts this as a benefit of the Winklevoss filing in comparison to other efforts that have sprung up to launch alternative bitcoin ETFs.
"Other Digital Asset ETPs may not be able to or willing to provide 'proof of control' of the private keys that control their bitcoin," the filing reads.
Waiting game
While a step forward, the development comes amid a now years-long effort by the Winklevoss brothers to launch the ETF as a way to allow investors additional exposure to digital currency market movements.
The effort picked up momentum earlier this summer when the Winklevoss brothers filed to move their application to the BATS exchange, a decision that has set off what has become an extended period of public comment.
Despite the advancements, however, market observers believe it could be years before any of the multiple proposed bitcoin ETFs goes live.
Adding fuel to this speculation is the relative lack of education about digital currencies, as well as the continued issues faced by the bitcoin exchange sector, which remains plagued by breaches and security issues.
Image via Flickr
Cameron WinklevossExchangesState StreetTyler Winklevoss
368
73
32
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Bitcoin's Lightning Network Takes a Big Step Toward...
NEXT ARTICLE
Walmart Blockchain Pilot Aims to Make China's Pork Market...
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
NEWS
Nov 15, 2016 at 12:59 | Pete Rizzo
Bitcoin Exchange Gemini Adds APIs for Automated Traders
New York bitcoin exchange Gemini has announced a series of new API offerings aimed at automated traders.
NEWS
Nov 8, 2016 at 18:29 | Stan Higgins
Coinbase Redesigns Wallet Website for Digital Assets
Coinbase has launched a redesigned version of its website, an unveiling it said marks its transition from a wallet to a digital asset exchange.
NEWS
Nov 1, 2016 at 11:02 | Pete Rizzo
BTCC Takes Aim at Bitfinex With US Dollar Bitcoin Trading
BTCC announced today that it will be adding US dollar (USD) to its existing bitcoin exchange service.
NEWS
Oct 21, 2016 at 23:05 | Pete Rizzo
Bitfinex to Hacker: Can We Have Our Bitcoin Back?
Bitfinex is now seeking to strike a deal with the hacker or hackers who stole $65m in bitcoin from the exchange back in August.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.