http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/05/ark-tec-ico-for-next-gen-blockchain-ecosystem/
The 'ARK TEC' ICO Offers an Opportunity to Be Part of the next Generation Blockchain Ecosystem - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:28 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
The ‘ARK TEC’ ICO Offers an Opportunity to Be Part of the next Generation Blockchain Ecosystem
Author
Gautham
Categories
Sponsored Stories



The ARK TEC ICO allows investors and cryptocurrency enthusiasts to be part of the ARK Ecosystem for next generation blockchain solutions. Read more...
ARK, the development team behind new age blockchain products and services has announced the launch of their upcoming ICO. The initial coin offering, better known in ARK’s terms as Token Exchange Campaign or ARK TEC is slated to go live on November 7, 2016. During the 34-day long ICO period, investors can take part in the distribution of the ARK tokens while leveraging upon the bonus offers.
ARK is known to create innovative blockchain based solutions by development and integration of multiple technologies. The platform intends to make the use of blockchain technology more prevalent in existing industry settings. ARK Crew, the development team behind ARK platform also offer various blockchain services to their customers. The current ICO, ARK TEC is the platform’s initiative to raise funds for the development of complete ARK Ecosystem.
ARK has announced the creation of a maximum of 125 million crypto tokens, out of which 75% will be made available for the community during the crowd sale. Investors can buy 93,750,000 ARK tokens with Bitcoin, Lisk and other Altcoins supported by Shapeshift crypto-crypto exchange. The remaining 25% of the tokens will be distributed between ARK Team (15%), ARK Shield (7%), bounty programs (2%) and escrow service (1%).
With over 30 individuals with different educational and professional backgrounds from 15 different countries, ARK is a truly global blockchain platform. The expertise of ARK Crew includes engineering, medicine, education, front-end and back-end development and more.
The ARK TEC campaign also makes allowances for a much broader community participation. The attractive bonus and bounty programs encourage more people to actively participate in the ICO and promotions. Lisk users stand to get a 120% bonus during the first 24 hours of ARK TEC campaign. Similarly, sending out tweets, visiting and interacting with ARK on Bitcointalk and even interactions of on ARK’s Facebook page carries rewards as part of the ARK Bounty program.
ARK is offering an ideal opportunity to investors and cryptocurrency enthusiasts to become part of a movement. Those interested in seeing and being part of the future of blockchain technology can do so by participating in ARK TEC.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.