http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/innovation/terbium-labs-and-skry-team-up-to-enhance-detection-of-bitcoin-fraud/
Terbium Labs and Skry Team Up to Enhance Detection of Bitcoin Fraud | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyInnovationTerbium Labs and Skry Team Up to Enhance Detection of Bitcoin Fraud
Terbium Labs and Skry Team Up to Enhance Detection of Bitcoin Fraud
The integration aims to minimize the damage of blockchain fraud by reducing the delay time between compromise and detection.
Aziz Abdel-Qader | Innovation (CryptoCurrency) | Wednesday, 12/10/2016|19:07 GMT
0
0
Photo: FM
Cybersecurity startup Terbium Labs has partnered with Skry (formerly Coinalytics) to provide insights to financial institutions, law enforcement and Bitcoin companies looking to detect fraud and investigate criminal activity conducted using products built on Bitcoin and other blockchains.
The FM London Summit is almost here. Register today!
The partnership will allow users of Skry’s platform to use Terbium Labs’ flagship offering, Matchlight, to monitor nearly 4 million Bitcoin wallet addresses (public keys) that appear on the web, as well as the hidden and anonymized parts of the Internet, commonly called the “Dark Web”. Dark Web is a hidden layer of the Internet where criminals often conduct illegal transactions.
Matchlight technology continuously searches hundreds of seed links for sensitive data and intellectual property, in this instance Bitcoin public keys, notifying the user within minutes if his information appears.
According to the integration agreement, Matchlight will eventually map a significant portion of the entire Web to alert Skry’s users to the appearances of compromised or stolen data related to their Bitcoin wallet addresses, triggering further data aggregation and processing steps to provide critical associative information.
While Bitcoin and similar blockchain products are always under attack from sophisticated persistent threats, the online thieves often take less than a day to start selling the stolen data in the darker corners of the Internet. But since the signs of such attacks are hard to distinguish, the victim often detects the breach too late. As such, the new agreement aims to combat the blockchain fraud, or at least minimize the damage, by reducing the delay time between compromise and detection of data leaked to the web.
Commenting in a statement, Tyler Carbone, Chief Operating Officer of Terbium Labs said: “We are pleased to collaborate with Skry in their efforts to safeguard digital currencies and preserve the demand for enhanced privacy in public ledgers. Terbium’s unique approach to dark web monitoring gives Skry customers the crucial data needed to advance an investigation, mitigate risk, and combat fraudulent or criminal activity quickly.”
“We are excited to work with Terbium Labs and enrich our platform with data from the dark web. Making Terbium Labs’ exceptional technology part of Skry’s blockchain intelligence platform will unlock unprecedented insights and provide critical information to our customers,” added Fabio Federici, CEO of Skry, Inc.
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: bitcoin / Skry / Terbium Labs
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 6 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 8 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 9 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 9 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Siemens to Reform New York's Energy Market with LO3 Blockchain Microgrids
Lykke Unveils a Project Crowdsourcing/Collaboration Platform, Lykke Streams
Goldman Sachs Parts Ways with R3 Consortium to Pursue Independent Research
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions