http://www.eweek.com/cloud/hyperledger-blockchain-project-is-not-about-bitcoin.html
Hyperledger Blockchain Project Isn't About Bitcoin
  MOBILE
CLOUD
SECURITY
STORAGE
ENTERPRISE APPS
INNOVATION
Android   Apple   IT Management   Networking  
More
    Slide Shows   Video   Blogs   Research Center  
Sponsored Content
    Cloud   /   Hyperledger Blockchain Project Is Not About Bitcoin
      Hyperledger Blockchain Project Is Not About Bitcoin
    By Sean Michael Kerner  |  Posted 2016-10-07 Print
        LinkedIn
122
Share
161
Email
      VIDEO: Brian Behlendorf, executive director of the Hyperledger Project, explains what the open-source blockchain effort is about and why it's very different from Bitcoin.


The technology concept of blockchain gained notoriety due to the rise of the Bitcoin cryptocurrency, but blockchain has much wider implications and uses, according to Brian Behlendorf, executive director of the Hyperledger Project.
In December 2015, the Linux Foundation announced the launch of the Hyperledger Project in an effort to build an open-source blockchain platform. Blockchain is an approach that enables a ledger of transactions that can be verified through a distributed model. Among the backers of the Hyperledger project are Accenture, ANZ Bank, Cisco, CLS, Credits, Deutsche Börse, Digital Asset Holdings, DTCC, Eris Industries, Fujitsu, IC3, IBM, Intel, J.P. Morgan, London Stock Exchange Group, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MFUG), R3, State Street, SWIFT, VMware and Wells Fargo.
Behlendorf joined the project in May 2016 as executive director helping to lead the effort forward. Behlendorf is well-known in the open-source community as one of the founders of the Apache Software Foundation.
In a video interview with eWEEK, Behlendorf discusses why blockchain matters as well as how the effort is very different from Bitcoin, which was created by a mysterious developer known as Satoshi Nakamoto. However, the origination of the blockchain idea doesn't matter to Behlendorf or to Hyperledger.
  Why Cloud is Always Less Expensive and TCO Analysis
Download Now
"Blockchain is very transactional, and the ordering of events is very consistent," Behlendorf said.
Behlendorf noted that with Bitcoin's model of blockchain it can take up to 10 minutes until a transaction is considered complete and the blockchain is updated. Hyperledger has a blockchain project called Fabric that is significantly faster.
"With Bitcoin, there is a premise of eventual consistency that allows for massive scale," Behlendorf said. "Fabric is at the other end of the spectrum and is intended to be transactionally coherent."
Behlendorf explained that Hyperledger makes use of the Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT) approach to establishing consensus in the blockchain for transactions. As such, once something is recorded, it's guaranteed, an approach that is much more appealing to financial institutions than the Bitcoin model.
Another key difference between Bitcoin and Hyperledger is that Behlendorf has no interest in ever using Hyperledger to build a currency.
"You'll never see a Hyperledger coin," Behlendorf said. "By not pushing a currency, we avoid so many political challenges of having to maintain a globally consistent currency."
Watch the full video interview with Brian Behlendorf below:
Sean Michael Kerner is a senior editor at eWeek and InternetNews.com. Follow him on Twitter @TechJournalist.
          LATEST CLOUD ARTICLES
  Google Rolls Out Revamped Version Of Sites Web Page Tool
Microsoft-LinkedIn Deal Appears Close to Approval in EU
New Tool Shines Light on $5 Billion Web Traffic Fraud Racket
Microsoft's Azure Advisor Helps Customers Float Cloud Applications
Early Stage Startup Heptio Aims to Make Kubernetes Friendly
                Submit a Comment
There are no comments for this article yet.
  Manage your Newsletters:























        News and Reviews
IBM Aims Watson at Embodied Cognition
Microsoft Advances 'Any Developer, Any App, Any Platform' Strategy
Google Will Tag Frequent Violators of Its Site Safety Standards
Intel Lights Up the Sky With New Shooting Star Drone
Old School Polling Methods Hid Trump's Popularity With Voters

                        Topics by Type
Android
Apple
Cloud
Database
Developer
Enterprise Apps
Innovation
IT Management
  Mobile
Networking
PC Hardware
Security
Servers
Small Business
Storage
Virtualization
Articles by Type
News & Analysis
Slideshows
Blogs
Reviews
Video
  Contact Us
About eWeek
Sitemap
Blogs
Security Watch
Upfront
First Read
Storage Station
Careers
Google Watch
Special Features
eWeekChat
eWeek 30th Anniversary
Cloud Backup Project Center
Next Generation Firewall Project Center
Big Data Analytics Project Center
Research Center
      Property of QuinStreet Enterprise.
Terms of Service | Licensing & Reprints | Privacy Policy | Advertise
Copyright 2016 QuinStreet Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 