https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/donald-j-trump-bitcoin-peter-thiel/
Donald J. Trump Appoints Bitcoin Investor Peter Thiel to Presidential Transition Team - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
NewsWorld Politics
Donald J. Trump Appoints Bitcoin Investor Peter Thiel to Presidential Transition Team
Justin OConnell on 13/11/2016

3.5k
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
“
A page in the book of history has turned, and there is an opening to think about some of our problems from a new perspective,” the gay Bitcoin enthusiast, Peter Thiel, who will serve on Donald J. Trump’s presidential transition team, told the New York Times after the election. “I’ll try to help the president in any way I can.”
Since Donald J. Trump assumed the role of president-elect in last Tuesday’s U.S. election, much scrutiny has been put on his statements and team as the transition begins between President Obama and Mr. Trump.
President-elect Trump appointed a litany of Republican Party sweethearts such as New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, Former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Newt Gingrich, and Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani.
Trump also announced the billionaire technologist Thiel would join the Presidential Transition Team Executive Committee, alongside his all three of his children.
Donald Trump found support in Bitcoin investor and PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel.
“Together this outstanding group of advisors, led by Vice President-elect Mike Pence, will build on the initial work done under the leadership of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie to help prepare a transformative government ready to lead from day one,” stated President-elect Donald J. Trump. “The mission of our team will be clear: put together the most highly qualified group of successful leaders who will be able to implement our change agenda in Washington. Together, we will begin the urgent task of rebuilding this nation – specifically jobs, security and opportunity. This team is going to get to work immediately to Make America Great Again.”
Trump assumes the presidency January 20.
That PayPal co-founder, Bilderberg attendee, Facebook board member, Peter Thiel, joined Trump’s transition team means Thiel could help to vet presidential appointments and decide which campaign promises can evolve into policies.
Thiel has spoken  on behalf of the Republican National Convention and donated $1.25 million to his campaign. Thiel has trumpeted getting outsiders into Washington’s broken system.
“The big things he’s right about amount to a much-needed dose of humility in our politics,” Thiel said at a talk to the National Press Club a week before the election. “We’re voting for Trump because we’ve judged the leadership of our country to have failed.”
Thiel has expressed desire for government to focus less on sexuality and gender issues, and more on making the government efficient to complete infrastructure projects.
According to anonymous sources, Thiel, who leads a fun that invested in BitPay, has not outright rejected the notion of serving in Trump’s administration.
“Thiel’s disruptive nature may come in handy at helping Trump navigate tech issues, but the question is whether he will have all of tech’s interests, the Bay Area’s interests, at heart when giving his advice,” said an anonymous Democratic tech industry lobbyist.
Images from Flickr/Heisenberg Media and Shutterstock.
3.5k
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: News, World Politics Tagged in: bitcoin, Donald J Trump, peter thiel

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextVcash: A Cryptocurrency That Completes Transactions Without Confirmations13/11/2016
PreviousBitcoin Correction Continues13/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.