https://www.ig.com/za/forex-news/2016/10/25/usd-cnh-higher--buy-bitcoin-and-gold--35003
USD/CNH higher? Buy bitcoin and gold! | IG ZA
IG
Menu
Menu
Search
40-year heritage 152,600 clients worldwide Access to over 10,000 markets
USD/CNH higher? Buy bitcoin and gold!
The trend in USD/CNH and USD/CNY is clearly higher, with the yuan having fallen just over 12% since the January 2014 lows.
share
Chris Weston g+ ChrisWeston_IG
Market Analyst, Melbourne
Monday 24 October 2016 21:43
Source: Bloomberg
As the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) have detailed, there is little basis for persistent yuan depreciation. There is certainly some merit in this, but much hinges on the outlook for the USD.
We can see US assets continue to become more attractive on a relative basis, so if we look at the yield premium commanded by the China ten-year treasury over the US ten-year treasury, we can see this coming in from 142 basis points (bp) in July to currently stand at 92 bp - the lowest premium since March. On a relative basis, this is boosting the attractiveness of the USD to Chinese investors and we believe the Q3 balance of payment data (when released on 4 November) will show a reasonable pick-up in outbound portfolio and direct investment, assisted by further external lending. This should be partially offset by foreign inflows into China and RMB deposits, which can be a reflection of the RMB’s recent inclusion in the IMF’s SDR (Special Drawing Rights) basket.
Importantly, the CNH and CNY has been stable against the PBoC’s currency basket (known as the CFETS or China Foreign Exchange Trade System), throwing weight behind the idea that the USD has been the pre-eminent driver of USD/CNY of late (as opposed to pure CNY weakness).
When forecasting the USD, one should not by overly concerned about the Federal Reserve (Fed) hiking rates in the December meeting, but by the potential pace of hikes in 2017 and 2108. Recall, the Fed detailed in September that they might raise rates twice in 2017, however the interest rate market is far more sanguine with an 80% probability of just one hike currently priced in. This seems fair given a number of longer-term macro-economic uncertainties that need to play out. However, If US core inflation starts to tick higher from here, with wage growth at the centre of this, then the USD will attract strong capital inflows. This is certainly a big ‘if’ and our belief is that we should see US inflation pressures contained in 2017, with real GDP averaging around 2-2.2%. Certainly not an environment where the Fed should raise aggressively, which should keep the USD from rallying too greatly over the longer-term.
Chinese investors likely to buy gold and bitcoin
If we see USD/CNH moving progressively higher without any major breakout in range expansion, I would expect Chinese investors to look very intently at buying gold and bitcoin. Bitcoin especially has a strong correlation with USD/CNH, so this could be an interesting asset to put on the radar.
Share this article
share
This information has been prepared by IG, a trading name of IG Markets Limited. In addition to the disclaimer below, the material on this page does not contain a record of our trading prices, or an offer of, or solicitation for, a transaction in any financial instrument. IG accepts no responsibility for any use that may be made of these comments and for any consequences that result. No representation or warranty is given as to the accuracy or completeness of this information. Consequently any person acting on it does so entirely at their own risk. Any research provided does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and needs of any specific person who may receive it. It has not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment research and as such is considered to be a marketing communication. Although we are not specifically constrained from dealing ahead of our recommendations we do not seek to take advantage of them before they are provided to our clients. See full non-independent research disclaimer and quarterly summary.
FX levels to watch – GBP/USD, EUR/USD, USD/JPY
Buyers have returned in earnest to EUR/USD, while USD/JPY is seeing some weakness for a change.
Chris Beauchamp, Friday 25 November 2016 04:48
To boldly go where no price has gone before
The words “boldly” and “no price has gone before” had best described the US stock markets lately while the US dollar touches fresh 14-year highs.
Jingyi Pan, Thursday 24 November 2016 20:18
FX levels to watch – GBP/USD, EUR/USD, AUD/USD
With the US on holiday, we might be due a respite from the dollar strength that has dominated markets over the past couple of weeks.
Chris Beauchamp, Thursday 24 November 2016 04:36
Up, up, and away with the USD
A stronger dollar was seen overnight while the S&P 500 and DJIA made a last hurrah prior to the Thanksgiving holiday.
Jingyi Pan, Wednesday 23 November 2016 20:34
FX levels to watch – GBP/USD, EUR/GBP, USD/JPY
Sterling remains under pressure ahead of the Autumn Statement, while USD/JPY has entered a consolidation phase.
Chris Beauchamp, Wednesday 23 November 2016 04:22
See more
Find articles by analysts
Bernard Aw
Singapore
Chris Beauchamp
London
Chris Weston
Melbourne
Evan Lucas
Melbourne
Joshua Mahony
London
Leigh Riley
Johannesburg
Shaun Murison
Johannesburg
Travis Robson
Johannesburg
Articles and guides
Ways to trade forex
Discover how the world’s largest and most liquid financial market operates. We explain how international currencies are traded and give you the key facts you need to know before you enter this popular market.
Types of ETP
Find out how exchange traded products (ETPs) combine the best qualities of various investment vehicles. Learn about the different types of ETPs and the diverse range of markets you can trade on.
Commodities explained
As the essential components behind just about every other product imaginable, commodities are vital to modern economies. Find out how these volatile yet invaluable natural resources fit into the wider trading world.
This information has been prepared by IG, a trading name of IG Markets Limited and IG Markets South Africa Limited. In addition to the disclaimer below, the material on this page does not contain a record of our trading prices, or an offer of, or solicitation for, a transaction in any financial instrument. IG accepts no responsibility for any use that may be made of these comments and for any consequences that result. No representation or warranty is given as to the accuracy or completeness of this information. Consequently any person acting on it does so entirely at their own risk. Any research provided does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and needs of any specific person who may receive it. It has not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment research and as such is considered to be a marketing communication. Although we are not specifically constrained from dealing ahead of our recommendations we do not seek to take advantage of them before they are provided to our clients. International accounts are offered by IG Markets Limited in the UK (FCA Number 195355), a juristic representative of IG Markets South Africa Limited (FSP No 41393). South African residents are required to obtain the necessary tax clearance certificates in line with their foreign investment allowance and may not use credit or debit cards to fund their international account.
Find out more about
Trading forex
Forex CFD details
Forex spread betting details
Markets
Forex
Indices
Shares
Binaries
Other Markets
IG services
CFD trading
International account
Premium services
Trading platforms
Web platform
Trading apps
Advanced platforms
Compare features
Try our demo
IG analysis
News and analysis
Weekly reports
IG TV
New client: 010 344 0051 Clients: 010 344 0052 Tweet us: @IGSouthAfrica
ZA
IG | Sitemap | Terms and agreements| FAIS  | Privacy | IG Community | About IG |Refer a friend
Follow us online:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Remember that CFDs are a leveraged product and can result in losses that exceed your deposits. Trading CFDs may not be suitable for everyone, so please ensure that you fully understand the risks involved.
IG is a trading name of IG Markets Ltd and IG Markets South Africa Limited. International accounts are offered by IG Markets Limited in the UK (FCA Number 195355), a juristic representative of IG Markets South Africa Limited (FSP No 41393). South African residents are required to obtain the necessary tax clearance certificates in line with their foreign investment allowance and may not use credit or debit cards to fund their international account.
IG provides execution only services and enters into principal to principal transactions with its clients on IG’s prices. Such trades are not on exchange. Whilst IG is a regulated FSP, CFDs issued by IG are not regulated by the FAIS Act as they are undertaken on a principal-to-principal basis.
The information on this site is not directed at residents of the United States or Belgium or any particular country outside South Africa and is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person in any country or jurisdiction where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.
Voted SA’s top CFD provider in Business Day Investors Monthly Annual Stockbroker Awards in 2012 and 2013, best platform for Active Day Traders in 2013 and 2014 and SA's best Online Stockbroker in 2015.
2003-2016
IG Group | Careers
CFDs are a leveraged product and can result in losses that exceed deposits. Trading CFDs may not be suitable for everyone, so please ensure that you fully understand the risks involved.