http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/06/factom-raises-4-2-million-in-series-a-investment-from-draper-associates/
Factom Raises $4.2 Million in Series A Investment from Draper Associates - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
11:07 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Factom Raises $4.2 Million in Series A Investment from Draper Associates
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
19



Factom, the blockchain data management platform has raised $4.2 million as part of the Series A fundraising round. Read more...
The leading blockchain based data management solutions provider, Factom has received another round of funding. The platform has announced the successful closure of its Series A fundraising round totaling $4.2 million in its latest press release.
According to the company, the Series A fundraising round was led by Tim Draper of Draper Associates, a well-known investor in the tech circles. In a press statement, the co-founder and CEO of Factom Inc., Peter Kirby has expressed his pleasure at having venture capitalists of such caliber as part of the company.
Factom will be using the newly received funds for further development and expansion of the platform. Other investors in the Series A investment round includes Draper Associates Partners V, Propertyinfo Corporation, Star Vista Capital, CashBUS, BnkToTheFuture, Fenbushi Corporation, Fenbushi Investment Fund, China Canada Angels, Plug and Play and Tospring Technology Limited. Angel investors; Kevin and Darla Spiers, Hillary Ryan, Leon Fu, Roland hicks and Marc Shubert Living Trust Dtd have also invested in the platform.
Tim Draper has hailed Factom’s achievements by stating its importance in securing critical data belonging to the governments, banks, credit card companies, retailers, car manufacturers and other organizations prone to hacking attacks. Decentralization of data using blockchain technology will prevent data theft and other critical failures.
Factom already has two products, Apollo and Iris in the market. These products, built on the company’s open source software will soon be accompanied by other offerings following the recent funding round.
“Blockchains first pushed the boundaries of computer science with the simple yet revolutionary ability to trade digital value openly. Now we are pushing the limits of computer science in a second revolution. The Factom protocol allows for the open coordination of processes against immutable ledgers of data. It will have the same kind of impact on data and systems as the first revolution had on value,” says Paul Snow, the Chief Architect and co-founder of Factom.
The blockchain company is also involved in a Department of Homeland Security funded project to create a security solution for Internet of Things devices. The project is designed to ensure the security and integrity of data captured by border devices. DHS had awarded $199,000 to Factom towards the project.
With the latest funding, the total funds raised by Factom from four separate investment rounds stands at over $5.7 million. The earlier seed investments were raised from Kuala Innovations and two successful crowd sales.
Ref: Press Release
19
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×