http://www.coindesk.com/eu-parliament-paper-explores-bitcoin-powered-elections/
EU Parliament Paper Explores Bitcoin-Powered Elections - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$729
$734
$738
USD -0.07%
$737.76
CNY 0.11%
¥5,190.16
EUR €696.37
GBP £591.05
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
NEWS  •  REGULATION
EU Parliament Paper Explores Bitcoin-Powered Elections
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 3, 2016 at 20:12 GMT
NEWS
429
74
6
A think tank run by the European Parliament recently released a discussion paper on the use of bitcoin and blockchain technology in elections, analyzing the topic through the broader lens of electronic voting.
Published on 29th September, the paper was authored by Phillip Nicholas Boucher, a researcher for the European Union Think Tank. Boucher wrote that adoption would represent a major shift in how trust is managed within the voting process, moving that kind of control "away from central actors", leading to "tech-enabled community consensus".
The question, as the paper presents it, is whether the technology could be leveraged to provide either piecemeal or wholesale changes to existing voting systems, including those already operating via digital means.
Boucher wrote:
"Many experts agree that e-voting would require revolutionary developments in security systems. The debate is whether blockchain will represent a transformative or merely incremental development, and what its implications could be for the future of democracy."
The European Parliament isn't alone in weighed the concept.
It's an application that has been pursued in various forms in both the public and private sectors, with the idea being that a blockchain can allow users with software clients to signal preferences in distributed governance decisions.
The nature of bitcoin's proof-of-work was even described in the original white paper as a kind of "vote" for what constitutes the longest chain of transactions.
The bitcoin option
The paper goes on to speculate about what form a blockchain-based voting system might look like, suggesting that the bitcoin blockchain could be preferable over something entirely new and untested.
"One way of developing BEV systems for e-voting is to create a new, bespoke system, designed to reflect the specific characteristics of the election and electorate," Boucher wrote. "A second approach that may be cheaper and easier is to 'piggyback', running the election on a more established blockchain, such as that used by the virtual currency, bitcoin."
There are risks, according to Boucher. Perhaps most notable is the need to maintain voter anonymity – what he called "a crucial element of democratic participation".
That kind of individual privacy, he wrote, could become complicated in a wholly digitized environment, particularly within one that is at least somewhat managed by a third party.
Boucher concludes by pointing to efforts in e-voting throughout Europe. More effort, however, would be needed before widespread blockchain voting ever became possible.
He wrote:
"...proposals to use blockchain in national elections would have to comply with several other areas of European law, including privacy and data protection for voters, and accessibility for all citizens."
Polling booth image via Shutterstock
EuropeEuropean ParliamentVoting
429
74
6
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Hyperledger Launches Blockchain Working Group for Healthcare
NEXT ARTICLE
The Full Lineup for Scaling Bitcoin is Now Available
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
FEATURE
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:00 | Michael del Castillo
The Swiss Government is Paving the Way for Crypto Banks
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
NEWS
Nov 15, 2016 at 21:15 | Pete Rizzo
Sweden's Central Bank Considers Digital Currency Use
Sweden's central bank could soon launch its own digital currency – though it hasn't yet decided how the offering would work.
NEWS
Nov 14, 2016 at 17:13 | Stan Higgins
Bitcoin Wallet Blockchain to Add Buying Option
Bitcoin wallet company Blockchain is beta testing a new in-wallet purchase option in partnership with payments startup Coinify.
NEWS
Nov 7, 2016 at 12:20 | Pete Rizzo
SEB to Build Blockchain Channel Between New York and Stockholm
The blockchain service aims to go live sometime in 2017, according to SEB's head of transaction services.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.