http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/25/ibm-microsoft-and-sberbank-to-gather-at-blockchain-bitcoin-conference-russia/
Representatives of IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank to gather at Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference Russia
25-11-2016
07:19 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
CRYPTOCURRENCY ANALYSIS
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Downtrend Intact
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Showing Positive Signs
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Trend Bearish
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Buyers Make It?
ViaBTC Receives Mysterious 210 Bitcoin Deposit To Cloud Mining Address
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Representatives of IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank to gather at Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference Russia
Author
Guest Author
Categories
Press Release



On November 10, 2016 Moscow will host annual Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference Russia. Representatives of IBM, Microsoft, Qiwi, Sberbank and two dozens of other brands will present their views on Blockchain development.
On November 10, 2016 Moscow will host annual Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference Russia. Representatives of IBM, Microsoft, Qiwi, Sberbank and two dozens of other brands will present their views on Blockchain development.
Keeping in mind cryptocurrency topic, organizer of the event – Smile-Expo focuses on Blockchain technology. Representatives of Sberbank, Qiwi as well as a number of companies and startups are actively involved with it. Today, banking services, state management systems and social media are launched on the basis of Blockchain. The developers will present their products and communicate with attendees as well.
Two streams of the conference will be held simultaneously – for the representatives of banks and non-financial sector.
Key speakers of the Finance stream are Wall Street analyst and ex-VP of JPMorgan Chase Tone Vays, representative of the working group at the State Duma Elina Sidorenko, co-founder of Cyber.Fund and representative of NRU Marina Guryeva, managing director for technology innovation center at Sberbank Ekaterina Frolovicheva and other experts. They will talk about blockchain in banking system, state management, as well as about application of cryptocurrencies in terms of legislation.
Pro stream will bring together developers and entrepreneurs – those working with blockchain manually. They include authors of Golos blockchain platform, members of cyber.Fund team Valeriy Litvin and Dmitriy Starodubcev, Microsoft technology evangelist Konstantin Goldstein and Head of Fintech division at Skolkovo Pavel Novikov. The main topic of their discussion is technical aspect of projects: code writing, launch, entry into market.
During the pauses between the presentations participants will be able to communicate with the representatives of Wirex, BitKan, HaoBTC, Enso Industry and other companies, providing blockchain and bitcoin services.
This Moscow event is a part of a network of blockchain conferences, organized by the event company Smile-Expo. Its latest event dedicated to this topic was held in Kyiv on the 23rd September and became an unprecedented one in terms of the number of participants and attendees in Eastern Europe.
Date and Venue
Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference Russia will take place on the 10th of November at Digital October (Moscow, Bersenevskaya naberezhnaya, 6, bld. 3)
Do not forget to register.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
Company Contact
Company Name
Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference Russia
Representative Name
Marina Kryzhevska
Representative Position
PR manager
Email
m.kryzhevskaia@gmail.com
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.