https://ibsintelligence.com/ibs-journal/ibs-news/central-bank-of-kenya-not-a-fan-of-bitcoin/
Central Bank of Kenya not a fan of Bitcoin - IBS Intelligence
   IBS Newsletter
Register/Log In
Contact Us
Your Cart - £0.00
Menu
6
OCT 2016
Central Bank of Kenya not a fan of Bitcoin
Previous | Next
 The Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) has issued a statement declaring Bitcoin to be a threat to economic stability. The cryptocurrency’s unregulated nature is a breeding ground for terrorism and money laundering, according to the institution, which has placed adverts online and in newspapers to warn citizens against its use.
“This is to inform the public that virtual currencies such as Bitcoin are not legal tender in Kenya and therefore no protection exists in the event that the platform that exchanges or holds the virtual currency fails or goes out of business,” reads the notice. “CBK reiterates that Bitcoin and similar products are not legal tender nor are they regulated in Kenya. The public should therefore desist from transacting in Bitcoin and similar products.”
CBK appears to have taken particular umbrage to the idea that Bitcoins are unregulated, which means that the central bank has no jurisdiction over its use in the country. There have been conflicts on interest within Kenya’s government, too, as Joseph Mucheru, Cabinet Secretary for the Ministry of ICT, stepped down from his role as Director for Bitcoin company BitPesa due to a “conflict of interest”. According to CryptoCoinNews, BitPesa and compatriot company Safaricom are in a court dispute  as a result of Safaricom’s decision to terminate services to M-Pesa, used by BitPesa, based on a claim that it wasn’t in compliance with Kenya’s anti-money laundering laws.
Kenya isn’t the first country to be wary of Bitcoin. Russia has had a much-publicised on-off relationship with the cryptocurrency involving legislation on whether or not to ban and criminalise the use of it.
By Alex Hamilton
Follow Alex at @ADHamilton91
Related
Trump presidency could be good for Bitcoin
Mastercard President not too fond of Bitcoin
Bitcoin challenger Zcash claims stricter anonymity
Bitso Bitcoin startup completes $2.5m funding round
Circle breaks into Europe to offer Bitcoin purchasing
Powered by
Related Reports
Back Office Systems & Suppliers Report
£2,000.00
ADD TO CART
Core Banking Systems Case Studies
£2,000.00
ADD TO CART
IBS Journal

£545.00
SELECT OPTIONS
Payment Systems & Suppliers Report
£1,500.00
ADD TO CART


Advertise with us
Weekly Round-up – 28th October
Market News
About IBS
IBS Journal
Reports
Consulting
Buy
Events
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Terms & Conditions
Why buy from us
© IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC.
Developed by: Pi Techniques