http://www.onlinecasinoreports.com/articles/blockchain-and-bitcoin-russia-returning-to-show-its-many-sides-in-november.php
Blockchain and Bitcoin Russia Returning to Show It’s Many Sides in November | Online Casino Reports
Toggle navigation
Rate it!
     9.8
$1200 Bonus Package
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.7
Bonus de Bienvenida
100% hasta $200
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.7
$200 Welcome Bonus
Code: SLOTS200
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.1
$350 Bonus Package
Code: YES
Get My Bonus

Home News
Blockchain and Bitcoin Russia Returning to Show It’s Many Sides in November
Published October 29, 2016 by Lee R
The world is ready for blockchain, and Russia is ready to get ahead of the game.
On November 10th in Moscow, the world will get the latest look at the status of Blockchain and its importance to iGaming. 
Integrating Blockchain
The Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference Russia is conference dedicated to cryptocurrencies and blockchain-based services. As blockchain technology spreads to the mainstream, Blockchain and BitCoin Russia will take a look at implementation of blockchain in the banking sector, management and related areas.
Expanding Blockchain
Leading cryptocurrency Bitcoin, leading blockchain technology Ethereum, and individual adapted blockchain implementations at this point are relevant not only to large and major banks, but to medium enterprises as well. Moving forward, Blockchain and Bitcoin Russia will discuss implementation of blockchain products offer for reducing operational expenses and diversifying business processes.
Two Specializations
Organizer Smile-Expo Company has divided the conference into two sections, dedicated respectively to financial experts and entrepreneurs.
The financier section themes include implementation of blockchain in banking, preparation of the bill on cryptocurrency regulation, and creation of the Russian blockchain consortium. The entrepreneurs themes will consider blockchain in telecommunications, insurance, notary, the Internet of things and asset management.
Business Topics
Business areas being streamlined by blockchain will be described in full, including crypto- and blockchain projects most attractive for investment; the best places to find developers; the way that authorities view blockchain technologies and cryptocurrencies, as revealed in the bill to be presented from the Ministry of Finance and creation of national blockchain consortium; and development of blockchain technology in other countries.
Keen Local Interest
At last April’s conference on blockchain, also in Moscow, event coordinator Pavel Likhomanov revealed that discussions on themes such as Blockchain financial instruments, the creation experience of the first decentralized autonomous organizations and rates of digital currencies stoked local entrepreneur demand for blockchain technology and expertise in this region of Russia.
Foreign Attendance
Likhmanov further disclosed that representatives of major payment systems and companies outside the territory of the RF have confirmed their participation in the November event.
Wide Blockchain Appeal
With speakers ranging from developers of financial and technical services to financiers to entrepreneurs to lawyers to investors to other experts with something to say about blockchain development, the blockchain conference has something for IT pros, businesspersons and end users alike, and should not be missed by anyone looking to get a leg up in iGaming or e-commerce in general.
See also
Bitcoin & Blockchain Developers Set for Prague Conference
Prague to Host the Bitcoin & Blockchain Conference Next Month
Smile: Blockchain and Bitcoin Conference Prague is Coming
A Look Into The Prague 2016 Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference
Blockchain and Bitcoin Conference Ushers in New Era of Cryptocurrency

Bonuses
7SULTANS CASINO
FREE SPINS BONUS
30
  Free Slots Bonus
PLAY NOW
SPIN PALACE
BONUS PACKAGE
$1000
  3 Deposits
PLAY NOW
ROYAL VEGAS CASINO
WELCOME BONUS
$250
  100% Match Bonus
Min. Deposit: $20
PLAY NOW
YES! I WANT TO KNOW ABOUT EXCLUSIVE BONUSES, PROMOTIONS, AND NEWS.
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Navigation
Casinos
Bonuses
Games
Guides
News
Directory
Seal of Approval
Forum
Blacklisted Casinos
Popular Pages
Top Casinos
Exclusive Bonuses
No Deposit Bonuses
Mobile Casinos
Live Dealers
Free Casino Games
Progressive Jackpots
Live Streams
Apps
Games
Online Blackjack
Online Craps
Online Baccarat
Online Slots
Online Video Poker
Online Roulette
Online Hi-Lo
Online Casino Reports
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletter
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
Add Your Brand
Sitemap
Blog
Frequently Asked Questions
Responsible Gambling
International Sites


Online Casino Reports
onlinecasinoreports.com ©2016