http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/02/source-code-mirai-internet-things-botnet-appears-online/
Source Code for Mirai Internet of Things Botnet Appears Online
25-11-2016
11:07 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Global
Source Code for Mirai Internet of Things Botnet Appears Online
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
News, Opinion
49



To put this potential into perspective, Mirai is capable of pulling in several hundreds of thousands of bots from IoT devices.
Security researchers have come across the source code for the Internet of Things botnet called Mirai. This botnet has been used to launch major DDoS attacks against various websites. Such a powerful tool could be used to shut down nearly any public website in existence today. Now that the source code has been leaked, it becomes a lot easier to render the botnet useless.
Connecting millions of devices to the Internet sounds great on paper, but it creates a big problem as well. The Internet of Things makes it easier for internet criminals to create botnets, as not all of the Internet-connected machines are monitored on a 24/7 basis. The Mirai botnet took advantage of the early stages of IoT so far and “enslaved” thousands of devices all over the world.
Mirai Botnet Source Code Paints A Worrisome Future For IoT
What this botnet source code does is infect a lot of different devices. Computers, IP cameras, and insecure routers are just some of the potential targets. The source code appeared first on the Hackforums earlier this week, and it continuously scans the internet for IoT systems. Any device that is protected by default usernames and passwords is a potential victim of this malware.
To put this potential into perspective, Mirai is capable of pulling in several hundreds of thousands of bots from IoT devices. Although security researchers have undertaken specific action to bring this botnet down, it remained a significant threat. Now that the source code is made available, it remains to be seen how this situation evolves.
What is even more worrisome is how the Mirai source code leaves no trace when it infects a machine. As soon as the device is rebooted, all of the malicious code is wiped from memory. However, vulnerable devices can easily be re-infected as long as the default username and password remains active.
Although it remains unclear as to why this source code was released, to begin with, it is a blessing in disguise for security researchers. This unexpected gift allows them to create solutions to fight the botnet. It is very well possible distribution this code in the wid will lead to even more attacks against IoT devices, though.
The growth of Internet of Things cannot be denied. One thing a lot of people tend to forget is to remove their default login and password, to improve device security. While it is convenient to use logins such as “admin”, it is also a target for Internet criminals looking to take advantage.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
49
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.