http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/13/bitcoin-awakens-event-series-partners-central-texas-food-bank/
Bitcoin Awakens Event Series Partners with the Central Texas Food Bank
25-11-2016
09:38 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
CRYPTOCURRENCY ANALYSIS
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Downtrend Intact
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Showing Positive Signs
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Trend Bearish
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Buyers Make It?
ViaBTC Receives Mysterious 210 Bitcoin Deposit To Cloud Mining Address
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Awakens Event Series Partners with the Central Texas Food Bank
Author
Gola Yashu
Categories
Press Release
27



Bitcoin Event to Donate Portion of Proceeds to the Central Texas Food Bank
AUSTIN, TX – Austin based event company Cyberfunks Alliance (“Cyberfunks”) is pleased to announce their partnership with the Central Texas Food Bank (“Food Bank”) for their inaugural event series, Bitcoin Awakens, which will be held in Austin, TX on Saturday, October 22, 2016. 10% of the purchase price from every ticket sale automatically goes to the Food Bank.
Today’s announcement is the first in a series of related forthcoming announcements. Cyberfunks is a deeply entrenched network of Bitcoin enthusiasts who will host a groundbreaking event aimed at bridging the gap between Bitcoin technology and those without access to a bank account.
Using OpenBazaar, Cyberfunks listed a store enabling people to donate to the Food Bank and buy tickets for “Bitcoin Awakens” with no processing fee or middleman involved. Anyone in the world with access to an Internet connection can use Bitcoin and OpenBazaar to exchange goods and services freely.
Unlike traditional donation methods, OpenBazaar is not hindered by geographical restrictions for selling certain products due to varying political and economic factors. This makes a great platform to request donations at zero-marginal-cost.
Bitcoin donations to the Food Bank are fast, secure and make a big difference for non-profits. Unlike other types of donations, they go straight to supporting the mission, reducing the fees and overhead the charity pays. Without processing fees, 100% of Bitcoin donations go straight to the Food Bank.
This means that Bitcoin donations will provide more healthy meals for Central Texans in need. The Food Bank can turn a $1 donation into four meals worth of nutritious food! By raising food and funds for the Food Bank, you’re helping Central Texans eat healthier and live better. Nearly 46,000 Central Texans, one-third of them children, are counting on us each week to get the nutritious food they need and otherwise wouldn’t be able to afford.
This alliance helps the Food Bank provide meals to thousands of Central Texans facing hunger and helps to close the “hunger gap” that leaves nearly 30% of our neighbors in need without food assistance.
At Cyberfunks, we’re serious about empowering those in need and our relationship with the Food Bank gives us a great opportunity. Social value is the true beauty of Bitcoin and our mission is to show that. This is also a great way for Bitcoin to reach the everyday person and show them things they can relate to and how Bitcoin can help. This can help us bridge the gap from early adopters to mainstream.
The key to mass adoption is providing real value by addressing real needs! In order to spend this Bitcoin, a person must do hours of investigation to learn and locate usage. We overlook why and how Bitcoin applies to a lifestyle, where a person will use it, or even what technology Bitcoin’s based upon or how it functions.
Join us as we co-create the inroads for urban, tech-savvy, smartphone users to leapfrog inefficient economic infrastructures and reduce dependency upon legacy financial systems in a way that is lucrative and fun. Event ticket includes food/refreshments, giveaways, and admittance to the Bitcoin Awakens Victory party.
Bitcoin Awakens is designed for experts, users with no prior bitcoin experience and everything in between.
Registration is online through Eventbrite at http://www.eventbrite.com/o/cyberfunks-alliance-4469856495
Press? We’d love to have you, contact events@cyberfunks.tech
About Central Texas Food Bank:
The mission of the Central Texas Food Bank of Texas is to nourish hungry people and lead the community in ending hunger. Founded in 1981, the Food Bank provides food and grocery products through a network of 300 Partner Agencies and feeding and nutrition programs across 21 Central Texas counties, serving 46,000 people every week.The Food Bank was the first food bank in the nation to accept Bitcoin donations.
https://www.centraltexasfoodbank.org/bitcoin
For more information on the Central Texas Food Bank and its programs, visit https://www.centraltexasfoodbank.org/ and follow them on Twitter @CTXFoodBank.
About Cyberfunks Alliance:
Cyberfunks Alliance produces immersive experiences to teach about digital currency technology by using real world, fun-filled adventures. Guests take center stage in competitions of mystery, teamwork, and camaraderie which is the coolest Bitcoin event on the planet.
Email: events@cyberfunks.tech
Website: http://www.cyberfunks.tech/
Slack: http://cyberfunks.herokuapp.com
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/cyberfunk
Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/cyberfunks
Eventbrite: http://www.eventbrite.com/e/bitcoin-awakens-tickets-17580607069
OpenBazaar: ob://@bitcoinawakens
— END —
  Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
27
Company Contact
Company Name
Cyberfunks Alliance
Company Address
Urban Co-Lab
1818 East 12th Street
Austin, TX 78702
Representative Name
Fred Constantinesco
Representative Position
Co-Founder
Email
events@cyberfunks.tech / 469-214-0153
PUBLISHED BY
Gola Yashu
India-based IT professional Yashu Gola found Bitcoin in 2012, when he was trying to send money to one of his friends in the US. As he quotes, it was “love-at-first-sight” with the mystical work of digital currencies. He left his online advertising job to work as a full-time Bitcoin writer for forex news website ForexMinute.com. Apart from covering the minute-to-minute Bitcoin events, Yashu is also an active Bitcoin trader and analyst.When not working, he is found reading and writing movie scripts, poems and songs. He is also a passionate movie buff View all posts by Gola Yashu
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.