http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/09/kenya-revenue-authority-aims-impose-stricter-tax-compliance/
Kenya Revenue Authority Aims To Impose Stricter Tax Compliance
25-11-2016
09:52 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Kenya Revenue Authority Aims To Impose Stricter Tax Compliance
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
45



By conducting in-person inspections of all physical locations and kiosks, the KRA shows they are not messing around.
The financial situation in Kenya is slowly spiraling out of control. Small business owners are once again being targeted by the local Revenue Authority. Owners of a kiosk may find themselves forced to pay tax very soon, and door-to-door inspections to ensure tax compliance will be conducted. Another big boon for Bitcoin adoption, or a sign of more worrisome things to come?
Anyone who owns a kiosk in Kenya for their small business may find themselves n a bit of a pickle. The Kenya Revenue Authority will conduct thorough inspections to ensure tax compliance. What is rather surprising is the scope of these investigations, which will target even the smaller farmers.
To put this into perspective, the Kenya Revenue Authority wants these kiosk owners to pay taxes based on their turnover. In most countries, taxes are only paid on profits, which are what remains after deducting all other mandatory costs and expenses. For small business owners in Kenya, things will get very dire very soon.
Taxation In Kenya Is A Double-Edged Blade
By conducting in-person inspections of all physical locations and kiosks, the KRA shows they are not messing around. Rental properties, which eluded the taxman for several decades, will now also become subject to taxation. Property owners and traders will need to provide any information KRA staff may call upon. Even then, they may not be treated favorably.
Assuming someone would not be tax compliant, some action will be taken against them. Right now, it is unclear as to what this action would be. With the KRA falling behind revenue collection targets for many years, a new approach was required. Since most Kenyan businesses operate informally, there were very few options to tax owners properly.
National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich stated:
“We must widen the tax net so that everyone eligible to pay tax, including those in the informal sector, does so. In this respect, I have asked KRA to explore ways of taxing the informal sector and to redouble their efforts to net tax evaders.”
Depending on how this situation evolves, this could be positive news for Bitcoin adoption in Kenya. The country has been struggling finally for quite some time now. Business owners may look for alternative payment options to avoid being taxed on turnovers. Bitcoin would be a perfect solution, as it has already gained some traction in the country.
Source: Standard Media
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
45
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×