http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/innovation/blockchain-teams-coinify-to-offer-instantaneous-bitcoin-wallet-funding/
Blockchain Taps Coinify to Offer Instantaneous Bitcoin Wallet Funding | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyInnovationBlockchain Taps Coinify to Offer Instantaneous Bitcoin Wallet Funding
Blockchain Taps Coinify to Offer Instantaneous Bitcoin Wallet Funding
Blockchain will beta test the integration with select invite-only participants, working for a future global launch.
Avi Mizrahi | Innovation (CryptoCurrency) | Monday, 14/11/2016|15:59 GMT
0
0
Photo: Finance Magnates
Blockchain, which dominates cryptocurrency wallets with over 50% market share, just announced a partnership with blockchain payment and trading service provider Coinify that will allow users to fund their wallets almost instantaneously.
“Digital currencies and peer-to-peer transaction networks have the potential to modernize a financial system that is currently failing over a third of the global population,” said Peter Smith, Blockchain’s Chief Executive Officer. “This announcement represents a giant step forward in making bitcoin, still a nascent currency, a more compelling and efficient financial solution for new users.”
The Blockchain-Coinify integration will enable wallet funding via credit and debit cards inside a single user interface. Users will also be able to purchase bitcoin directly from their bank accounts, although wallet funding through this channel will only happen as fast (or as slow) as the bank transfers themselves are able to settle.
Continued Smith: “At Blockchain, we are on a mission to build an open, accessible and fair financial future, one piece of software at a time. This partnership is a huge step toward realizing that accessibility mission. For the first time, users will not be subject to the delays, complexities, and security risks that have plagued digital currency adoption in the past. This partnership will make our wallet infinitely more user friendly and, ultimately, more accessible for the mass market.”
The partnership with Coinify will be launched first in Europe. Blockchain will beta test the integration with select invite-only participants, working user feedback into an enhanced product for full global launch.
Mark Højgaard, CEO, Coinify
Coinify co-founder and CEO Mark Højgaard said: “Coinify shares in Blockchain’s mission to accelerate the adoption of digital currencies by making them more easily accessible. And we are honoured to be a part of this strategic partnership to serve millions of existing and new bitcoin users. With Blockchain’s dominant position in the cryptocurrency wallet market, I believe this will be a real game changer.”
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: bitcoin / blockchain
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 10 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 12 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 13 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Siemens to Reform New York's Energy Market with LO3 Blockchain Microgrids
Lykke Unveils a Project Crowdsourcing/Collaboration Platform, Lykke Streams
Goldman Sachs Parts Ways with R3 Consortium to Pursue Independent Research
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions