http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/07/fca-taps-epiphyte-explore-regulated-bitcoin-remittance-solutions/
FCA Taps Epiphyte To Explore Regulated Bitcoin Remittance Solutions
25-11-2016
05:48 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
FCA Taps Epiphyte To Explore Regulated Bitcoin Remittance Solutions
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
47



The news regarding the FCA taking a closer look at Bitcoin-based money transfers is quite surprising.
Bitcoin is starting to make an impact on remittance services all over the world. Epiphyte, a London-based blockchain money transfer specialist, is working together with the FCA in the UK. The purpose of this collaboration is simple: exploring cryptocurrency-based remittances. Cross-border transfers can be made cheaper and far more efficient using Bitcoin.
The news regarding the FCA taking a closer look at Bitcoin-based money transfers is quite surprising. Epiphyte will explore this option within the Financial Conduct Authority’s sandboxed environment over the coming months. The first project will focus on alternative clearing and settlement mechanism, which will be provided to existing banking systems. It is not unlikely this concept will be embraced by SWIFT, among other providers.
Under the name SpecialFX, the new service is expected to launch rather soon. IBTimes mentions how SpecialFX could see the light of day as soon as within the next 14 days. Having regulatory backing and authorization is a major boon for Epiphany and cryptocurrency-based money transfer solutions.
A Bold Decision By The FCA
But there is more good news, as the FCA provided a dedicated case officer for this particular project. This seems to indicate the governmental body is keen on exploring Bitcoin remittance solutions. A positive development for cryptocurrency as a whole, although it is still a bit early to cry victory.
Edan Yago, CEO of Epiphyte, shared the team’s excitement as follows:
“The FCA, through their sandbox, is going to provide us with an opportunity to start working with these customers to transfer real funds, as part of the ordinary course of their business. So we are going to be providing this clearing and settlement platform to remittance companies, to FX companies, and potentially at a later stage – although I can’t go into detail about it now – to corporates and even retail customers.”
Epiphyte is no stranger to remittance solutions by any means. By using technology facilitating transfers funds over Ethereum and Bitcoin, the team is keeping all options on the table. Additionally, their solution is compatible with virtually any blockchain in the world. By leveraging blockchain security and offering high transaction speeds, this new solution could become a powerful competitor in the money transfer business.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
47
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.