http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/17/shadow-brokers-10000btc-nsa-files/
Shadow Brokers Scraps Auction, Opts for 10,000 BTC Crowdfund to Release NSA Files - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:54 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Shadow Brokers Scraps Auction, Opts for 10,000 BTC Crowdfund to Release NSA Files
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, Hacked, News
34



The Shadow Brokers have backtracked from the auction, they are now willing to make the password public for 10,000 BTCs in crowdfunding. Read more...
It was expected to turn out this way. The hacker group, Shadow Brokers that was responsible for obtaining a cache of cyber-attack tools allegedly used by US National Security Agency’s Equation Group has decided to get rid of the auction process. The decision was made by the hacking group a few days ago after it failed to gain enough attention.
According to Shadow Brokers’ recent post on Medium two days ago, the hacker group is now willing to give away the password to access all the Equation Group files for 10,000 BTCs. This time, they are not auctioning but opting for a crowdfund. While the Bitcoin wallet address remains unchanged, the amount of Bitcoin they are demanding definitely has.
So far, Shadow Brokers have managed to raise a bit over 2 BTCs. Provided the community decides to make up for the 9,998 BTC difference, the password will be made available to the public. The decision follows its post on Pastebin where it offered three possible options –  dumping the files for free, conducting an auction and offer the password to the highest bidder, or a consolation prize which is the crowdfunding option.
Shadow Brokers claim that they have already released over 60% of all the hacked files to the public for free. The rest 40% on auction (now crowdfunding) is said to include Equation Group’s toolkits for various platforms which are worth millions of dollars. However, the likelihood of them reaching their crowdfunding goal are thin.
The authenticity of files released by Shadow Brokers has been verified by many including the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden. The hesitation on part of the community is assumed to be due to lack of trust and possible blowback from the intelligence community. Some fear that by participating in the auction of stolen NSA files, they may end up becoming targets.
There are also reports of NSA acknowledging a mistake made by one of their former employees during an active operation, which may have compromised the files. The intelligence agency had made the details available to the Federal Bureau of Investigation during an inquiry into stolen cyber attack tools.
Will Shadow Brokers be successful in getting 10,000 BTCs which they believe makes a decent compensation for their “hard work” or not… Let’s wait and watch.
Ref: IBT | TheShadowBrokers (Medium) | Pastebin | Image: The USB Port
34
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×