https://www.buzzfeed.com/josephbernstein/bitcoin-surges-following-trump-win?utm_term=.waPJa45OVE#.lwqkoyP28R
Bitcoin Surges Following Trump Win - BuzzFeed News
News
News
Videos
Quizzes
Tasty
DIY
More
Get Our News App
TECH
Bitcoin Surges Following Trump Win
Is the cryptocurrency gold 2.0?
posted on Nov. 9, 2016, at 11:52 a.m.
Joseph Bernstein
BuzzFeed News Reporter
Anthony Wallace / AFP / Getty Images
While the market meltdown some feared following a Donald Trump win in the presidential election hasn’t taken place — the major US indices are hovering down less than 1 percent this morning — one currency has seen a major bounce since it became clear last night that Trump was likely to be the country’s next President:
Bitcoin.
The seven-year-old cryptocurrency shot up $30 to $738 per BTC, before settling back down around $722, where it sits right now. That’s up nearly 2 percent today. The reason? According to Chris Burniske, blockhain products lead at the investment house ARK Invest, money floods to bitcoin in times of market instability.
“In many ways, people are treating it as gold 2.0.”
“In many ways, people are treating it as gold 2.0,” Burniske said. “Time and again over the past year, whether it was during the yuan devaluation or Brexit, whenever we have these shocks to capital markets, you see people turning to Bitcoin. It’s a disaster hedge.”
Bitcoin is relatively small. Its market cap — around 11.5 billion dollars — makes it slightly less valuable than Twitter. It’s largely free from capital controls, and is driven by an independent group of investors from around the world. According to Burniske, these factors leave the currency uncorrelated with other capital markets. In other words, it’s an attractive asset to buy when larger global assets are volatile. (It’s worth noting that the price of gold is also up more than a percentage point today.)
While many previous Bitcoin spikes have been driven by investment from China, the money flowing into the cryptocurrency last night and today seems to be coming from US-based investors. According to Burniske, the volume on the five biggest Bitcoin-US Dollar exchanges is triple today what it was Monday.
What a Trump presidency will mean for bitcoin and cryptocurrencies in general is unclear. The policies section of the Trump/Pence website makes no mention of digital currencies. But if Trump governs with the capriciousness that he campaigned, it stands to reason that the markets could follow. And that will ultimately be good for whatever asset is most insulated from that volatility.
And today, that seems to be bitcoin.

Joe Bernstein is a senior technology reporter for BuzzFeed News and is based in New York. Bernstein reports on and writes about the gaming industry and web culture.
Contact Joseph Bernstein at joe.bernstein@buzzfeed.com.
More ▾
NEXT ON NEWS›
This Mom Took A Selfie Unaware Her Daughter's Childhood...
Tagged:bitcoin, bitcoin, cryptocurrency, trump
  Facebook Conversations
Fidel Castro Dead At Age 90
Castro was the harbinger of the 20th century Latin American communist wave and leader of the Cuban revolution.
Cuban President Raul Castro announced the death of his brother on state media late Friday.
Castro stepped down from power in 2008 permanently after nearly five decades as prime minister and president.
Download the BuzzFeed News app
The Man Who Made Adidas Cool Again
by Reggie Ugwu
Connect With Tech
Like Us On Facebook Follow Us On Twitter Follow Us On Apple News Subscribe to our RSS feed
News moves fast. Keep up with
the BuzzFeed News daily email.
More News
Fidel Castro, Longtime Cuban Leader, Dead At Age 90
Army Tells Dakota Access Pipeline Protesters To Leave Camp By Dec. 5
Students Complained About Chattanooga Bus Driver’s Actions Before Deadly Crash
Kidnapped California Mom Was Emotional, But Elated To Be Released, Sheriff Says
Jill Stein Files For A Presidential Vote Recount In Wisconsin
Dozens Of Oil Pipeline Protesters Arrested During A Prayer Circle At North Dakota Mall
Florence Henderson, Iconic Mom On “The Brady Bunch,” Dies At 82
Inmates Rappel Down Second-Story Window To Escape California Jail
Jill Stein’s Fundraiser For Voting Recounts Surges To $4.5 Million
12 People Arrested After Massive Wildfire Rips Through Israel’s Third-Largest City
More News
Now Buzzing
Kidnapped California Mom Was Emotional, But Elated To Be Released, Sheriff Says
Easy Baked Churros
Are These Lyrics From A P!ATD Or A FOB Song?
"Moana" Almost Had A Very Different Ending
Being A Teenager In Britain Vs Being A Teenager In Australia
What % Of Your Sex Potential Have You Unlocked?
18 Dating And Relationship Tweets Guaranteed To Make Any Indian Laugh Hysterically
24 Times Black Women Were Winning In 2016
Army Tells Dakota Access Pipeline Protesters To Leave Camp By Dec. 5
17 Stunning People Who Will Make You Wish You Had Curly Hair
21 Problems Only People With A Gaelic Name Will Understand
More Buzz
Advertise Jobs Mobile Newsletter Shop US Edition
About Press RSS Privacy User Terms Ad Choices Help Contact
© 2016 BuzzFeed, Inc