http://www.geektime.com/2016/10/10/ahead-of-diwali-india-bitcoin-startups-unocoin-zebpay-and-coinsecure-mine-new-investments/
Ahead of Diwali, India bitcoin startups mine new investments
Ahead of Diwali, India bitcoin startups Unocoin, Zebpay and Coinsecure mine new investments
GeekTime
Locations
Categories
Startups
News
With the highest remittance rate in the world, India might have a perfect storm of expertise and demand to become a strong hub for bitcoin and blockchain
Zebpay, a bitcoin wallet provider based in India, is raising a new funding round of between $4 million and $5 million, following a $1 million seed investment the company got earlier this year. Like a number of new Fintech and e-commerce startups in India and Southeast Asia, the company is tying mobile payments to personal cell accounts because so many residents of that part of the world are unbanked. Zebpay is negotiating with a leading U.S. venture capital fund, according to the Economic Times, but they aren’t the only company in India currently raising new money for their operations. Given India’s mix of IT know-how, rising focus on cybersecurity, large number of businesspeople working abroad and historically unbanked population, there is great interest in incorporating the bitcoin into the Indian digital economy.
Zebpay, founded as BuySellBitco.in in 2012, is integrating bitcoins into mobile payment services for Indian customers of Flipkart, Amazon and MakeMyTrip. Some Zebpay-backed promotions bring significant discounts to customers. The company boasts 130,000 users, up from 25,000 just this past January, according to SiliconANGLE. This round also included two Indian investors, who went unnamed by the company.
“The environment in India for cryptocurrency is extremely positive,” co-founder Saurabh Agrawal stated after the seed round earlier this year, according to , “and we are planning to utilize the amount to promote bitcoins as a reliable currency and investment option.”
Some are , the upcoming annual Hindu festival, as consumer sales skyrocket. But all countries have holidays and excuses to buy gifts. There are some unique factors behind the rise of the coin in Bangalore, Mumbai and New Delhi. India saw another recent bitcoin investment in the $1.5 million round of Bangalore-and-Tumkur-based Unocoin, which boasts 100,000 users and 30 employees, according to Bitcoin Magazine. That round was led by Blume Ventures, with funds also coming from Boost VC, FundersClub, Digital Currency Group and Bank to the Future.
“India has the largest gold, inward remittance and IT markets in the world, all of which make it a perfect home for bitcoin and blockchain technology,” Unocoin CEO Sathvik Vishwanath said after raising the round, explaining what he clearly sees as a perfect opportunity to let India take a bigger chunk of the global bitcoin industry. The statement is backed up by the , which names India as the global leader in receipt of remittances.
Other local startups in the space include BTCXIndia and Delhi-based Coinsecure. The latter raised its own $1.2 million seed round in April and is currently hunting for “$3.5-3.8 million in the next few months,” the Economic Times reports Coinsecure co-founder Benson Samuel as saying. Coinsecure also recently announced a bitcoin partnership with OKLink, an offshoot of China-based OKCoin, to take advantage of the remittance market in India.
India’s Fintech space grows
“Specifically, P2P lending and remittances are the current trends in the Indian Fintech space,” according to a recent report by . “Slowly a clutch of companies are beginning to look at robo-advice and bank-in-a-box as new investment avenues. Blockchain is an emerging tech-mammoth and has the potential for mass market implementation in the future.”
The unbanked population makes the payments startup scene a strong one in southern Asia, where arrangements like Zebpay’s are becoming common. That also has aroused interest in blockchain from India’s Fintech companies, including P2P lenders Faircent, i-lend and MicroGraam. The Boston Consulting Group said in July they expected the Indian digital payments market to reach $500 billion by 2020. That unique payments environment played a role in the recent , whose sale indicates the payments market is maturing after Indian government efforts to reduce the number of unbanked residents.
It remains to be seen whether these four companies are just the tip of the iceberg and whether India can harness its manpower to challenge established bitcoin centers like Fintech powerhouse London. But the demand and know-how are there, so there is a real opportunity for India to turn itself into a new hub for a very important vertical.
About Gedalyah Reback
Gedalyah Reback is a seasoned writer who has covered the political scene and Middle East for years. He is testing the waters with tech and is extremely funny, good looking, and not single.
More Goodies From Gedalyah Reback
Biotech startup Shockwave raises $45 million to blast away clogged arteries
Venture Capital
Seraphim Capital raises a new $100 million space tech venture fund

Developers agree: The future of chatbots is in travel and banking
India’s new cash crisis could spur digital transactions
More Stories
Entrepreneurship
Top 10 undiscovered startups from Brazil
8 shares
Wearables
5 Wearables you need to know about before Black Friday
   Worth a Read
Top viewed
Top Shared
Amazon’s 2-day unlocked Android sale: LG, ASUS, Nextbit, OnePlus, ALCATEL, and Moto
Open source marketing automation platform Mautic picks up $5M Series A and a new CEO from Applause
10 major languages Google Translate needs and where you can find them now
CA Technologies reportedly pays $100 million to acquire Israeli testing startup BlazeMeter
Israeli business intelligence startup Anodot raises $8 million Series B
MEET THE GEEKS
About Us
Advertise With Us
Jobs at Geektime
Terms of use
Contact Us
TIME FOR NEWSLETTER
Stay up to date with all that's super hot and cool around the globe in tech.
Get it!
GOT SOMETHING TO SAY?
So click here, we would like to hear
FOLLOW US
Follow Geektime with your favourite social platform.

UX & Design by David Luria