http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/08/lightning-transaction-protocol-successfully-tested-by-blockstream/
Lightning Transaction Protocol Successfully Tested by Blockstream - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:50 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Lightning Transaction Protocol Successfully Tested by Blockstream
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
44



Blockstream successfully tests Lightning payment protocol on Bitcoin blockchain. Read more...
The Bitcoin Lightning micropayments protocol has successfully passed the test. The protocol was tested recently by researchers from Blockstream, a company contributing towards the maintenance and development of Bitcoin Core protocol.
People from across the world are increasingly using Bitcoin as a medium of value exchange and storage. This has led to a sharp rise in the number of transactions being processed by the Bitcoin blockchain on a daily basis. As the community continues to grow, the Bitcoin network needs to be scaled to ensure fast and efficient handling of transactions.
The Lightning network is one of the proposed scaling initiatives that creates a secondary payments layer over the Bitcoin blockchain. The Lightning network allows unlimited instant transactions between two Bitcoin wallets without creating individual entries on the blockchain for each transaction. This way, it will not only increase the speed of transaction but also reduces the overall cost of transactions (miner fee).
The Lightning network is still in development and testing phase. Blockstream tested v0.5 C prototype as part of its continued development efforts. As a part of the demonstration, Dr. Christian Decker — one of the developers made a purchase of a cat’s picture for 0.01 test BTC to receive the access link for the picture. Once the transaction was completed, Decker opened another node and connected it to the first node to buy a second copy of the same ASCII picture of “two cats”. Complete details of the successful test were published by Decker’s associate Rusty Russell on Blockstream’s official blog.
According to Russell, this was the first end-to-end test of lightning micropayment network including the invoicing, multi-hop payment and item delivery. The test was conducted on a Digital Ocean server running Apache, bitcoind and lightningd, creating an invoice using lightning-cli invoice ‘100000’ CGI script. A user clicking on a unique link will be allowed access to the product (the cat picture in this context) if ‘lightning-cli listinvoice‘ indicates that the invoice is paid.
During the course of testing, the development team came across few bugs, which were easily resolved. Russell believes that the Lightning v0.5 C is almost ready, with few tweaks and proper documentation it will be released soon.
Ref: Blockstream Blog |Image: Blockstream
  44
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×