http://www.techspot.com/news/66868-switzerland-national-rail-service-sell-bitcoin-through-1000.html
Switzerland's national rail service will sell Bitcoin through its 1,000 ticket machines - TechSpot
LOGIN _
Social Sharing
Search
TechSpot
TRENDING
REVIEWS
FEATURES
BEST OF
DOWNLOADS
PRODUCT FINDER
FORUMS
INDUSTRY
TECH CULTURE
Switzerland's national rail service will sell Bitcoin through its 1,000 ticket machines
By Jose Vilches on Oct 31, 2016, 2:15 PM
Switzerland's national railways firm SBB has announced it will be running a two-year experiment to gauge interest in Bitcoin. Starting November 11, customers will be able to trade Swiss francs for the crypto currency through its network of more than 1000 ticket machines.
"There have been few possibilities to obtain bitcoins in Switzerland until now," SBB said. "With its 1,000-plus ticket machines, SBB operates a dense, around-the-clock distribution network that's suited for more than just ticket sales."
Swiss Railways has partnered with Swiss payments company SweePay, which will act as the intermediary for Bitcoin purchases on SBB ticket machines. Transactions will be capped at 500 Swiss Francs each — which converts to around £415 / $500 — and while Bitcoin transactions are known to be made relatively anonymously, those buying from SBB ticket machines will need to identify themselves using their mobile telephone number.
Bitcoin has drawn interest as a way to move money around rapidly, without fees or bank involvement. Back in July, the Swiss town of Zug launched a six-month scheme letting residents pay for public services using Bitcoin. The new trial will make it easier for anyone to buy Bitcoins with 1,000 ticket machines working around the clock. But while bitcoins can be purchased, they won't be accepted as payment at the machines.
Bitcoin hype has died down over the last couple of years in many parts of the world, but the crypto currency is on an upward trend, rising by 19% this month to a high of $718.
Related Reads
Matternet drones to deliver mail in Switzerland this summer
A third of all Bitcoin exchanges have been hacked since 2009
Tiger Direct now accepting Bitcoin payments
1 comment
42 interactions
Share this article:
Video Highlight
Now Read This…
POPULAR
53 comments
My Month Without a Smartphone
92 comments
Experts urge Clinton to demand election recount in three key states amid vote hacking fears
User Comments: 1
Got something to say? Post a comment
Load all comments...
DISCUSS
7
Elon Musk hits out at the trolls writing fake stories about him
27
Reddit CEO secretly edited Trump supports' posts
8
Samsung moves on from Note 7 crisis after throwing SDI under the bus
11
Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 upgrade program confirms there will be a Note 8 next year
32
The UK wants to ban citizens from accessing websites that feature "non-conventional" porn
Recently commented stories Jump to forum mode
Add New Comment
You need to be a member to leave a comment. Join thousands of tech enthusiasts and participate.
TechSpot Account
Sign up for free, it takes 30 seconds.
Already have an account? Login now.
You may also...


Main Sections
Technology News
Reviews
Features
Product Finder
Downloads
Drivers
Useful Resources
Best of the Best
Must Reads
Trending Now
Hot Downloads
About TechSpot
About
Advertising
News Archive
Social & Feeds
Follow TechSpot
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
YouTube
RSS
Subscribe to the TechSpot Newsletter
© 2016 TechSpot, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
TechSpot is a registered trademark. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Licensing Advertise
International Editions: US / UK India