http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/27/john-mcafees-mgt-bitmain-launch-new-bitcoin-mining-pool/
John McAfee's MGT and Bitmain To Launch New Bitcoin Mining Pool
25-11-2016
04:56 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
John McAfee’s MGT and Bitmain To Launch New Bitcoin Mining Pool
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
143



For now, it remains unclear under which brand this new mining pool will operate.
If there is one thing the Bitcoin world can never enough of, it is mining pools. MGT Capital Investments, Inc. (OTCMKTS: MGTI) has signed a Letter of Intent with Bitmain Technologies Ltd. As a result of this collaboration, both companies will focus on developing a new state of the art Bitcoin mining pool. John McAfee seems to be big on Bitcoin, and this venture only reaffirms that sentiment.
This joint venture between MGT Capital Investments and Bitmain primarily targets North America. Bitmain is operating one of the world’s biggest mining pools under its Antpool brand. Moreover, they also run the Hashnest cloud mining business. It is evident why this company is a valuable partner for John McAfee’s MGT. 
MGT Sees Value In Creating A New Bitcoin Mining Pool
Although details regarding this new mining pool remain vague, some tidbits of information were revealed. The pool will focus on providing miners with a more advanced user interface. Additionally, there will be superior network protection. Speaking of which, all cyber security will be handled by MGT’s proprietary technologies.
MGT Executive Chairman John McAfee told the media:
“Our partnership with an iconic name such as Bitmain Technologies is a major milestone for MGT as it executes it plan to become the major player in bitcoin throughout the western hemisphere. This Partnership will go a long way towards making MGT a leader in the fastest growing segment of financial and industrial cybersecurity.”
But there’s more to this mining pool. Both companies want to provide affordable cloud mining plans to global customers. Whether they are individuals or enterprise-level clients, everyone will have affordable access to US-hosted mining hashpower. MGT will take care of maintaining these facilities, while Bitmain will supply all of the necessary mining equipment and software support.
Speaking of the mining equipment, it seems plausible the Bitmain Antminer S9 will be deployed in large quantities. Since this is the most power-efficient Bitcoin mining unit in the world, there is no reason to use different hardware. If this operation could make use of renewable energy sources to boot, that would keep the ecological footprint down and reduce operational costs.
For now, it remains unclear under which brand this new mining pool will operate. More details regarding the branding and financial aspects of this cloud mining venture are expected to be released shortly. Having a prominent company such as MGT on board for this venture is a further validation of Bitcoin as a business opportunity.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
143
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×