http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/14/bitcoin-price-technical-analysis-11142016-new-trend-forming/
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/14/2016 - New Trend Forming! - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:22 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/14/2016 – New Trend Forming!
Author
Sarah Jenn
Categories
Analysis, Bitcoin
68



Bitcoin price is establishing a new downtrend after breaking below an area of interest. More bears are waiting at this retest of the broken support.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Bitcoin Price Key Highlights
Bitcoin price recently broke below an area of interest marked in an earlier article, indicating that a downtrend might be due.
Price is now pulling back up to this area for a retest before gaining more traction in its selloff.
If the near-term resistance holds, bitcoin price could make its way back down to the recent lows at $685.
Bitcoin price is establishing a new downtrend after breaking below an area of interest. More bears are waiting at this retest of the broken support.
Technical Indicators Signals
The 100 SMA is still above the 200 SMA for now but the gap has considerably narrowed, indicating that a downward crossover is in the works. If that materializes, selling pressure could kick higher, allowing bitcoin price to resume its selloff.
Also, the moving averages line up with the descending trend line connecting the highs of bitcoin price action since November 9, adding to its strength as a potential ceiling around $705-710. A move past this area could put bitcoin back in its longer-term climb.
Lastly, stochastic is indicating overbought conditions and is starting to turn lower. This means that buying momentum is exhausted and that sellers could hop back in.
Market Events
The US dollar has been on a tear since the election results were announced, as a bit of calm was restored in the markets when president-elect Trump gave a relatively sober victory speech. Market watchers are now focusing their attention to his campaign promises of corporate tax cuts, bank deregulation, and an overhaul of the healthcare system, all of which might benefit businesses down the line.
Apart from that, the selloff in bitcoin against other currencies, mainly the Chinese yuan, has led to cryptocurrency losses across the board. On top of rumors that the Chinese government could restrict bitcoin trading in the mainland, the yuan’s recent appreciation has been drawing more investor interest in Chinese assets.
Moving forward, continued optimism in the US economy and reinforced expectations of a Fed rate hike this December could keep the dollar rallying against bitcoin. US retail sales, PPI, CPI and a speech by Fed head Yellen are lined up this week.
Charts from SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
68
PUBLISHED BY
Sarah Jenn
Sarah has been involved in the cryptocurrency space since the very beginning. Having stumbled across well hidden discussions in early forums she immersed herself in the industry, and is now a leading author and consultant for a range of bitcoin companies. She loves DASH and mathematics. View all posts by Sarah Jenn
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
This article is Sponsored by
You'll can skip this Ad in 2 seconds...
SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before
130 COUNTRIES | 40000+ TRADERS