http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/education-centre/bitcoin-tops-list-of-paid-keywords-sought-by-retail-brokers/
Bitcoin Tops List of Paid Keywords Sought by Retail Brokers | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyEducation CenterBitcoin Tops List of Paid Keywords Sought by Retail Brokers
Bitcoin Tops List of Paid Keywords Sought by Retail Brokers
New index by FM Intelligence reveals the terms that online trading brokers are willing to pay the most for.
Avi Mizrahi | Education Center (CryptoCurrency) | Wednesday, 26/10/2016|15:08 GMT
0
0
Photo: FM
Bitcoin is the most sought after paid keyword by online FX, binary options and CFD trading firms, as revealed today by Finance Magnates Intelligence Department, here to help brokers decide where to invest their precious marketing resources.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
The top five paid keywords are ‘bitcoin’, ‘binary trading’, ‘stock market’, ‘CMC’ and ‘+500’. People interested in the stock market are obviously a demographic that will be a main target for CFD brokers and anyone searching for binary trading is primed for binary options companies. CMC and Plus500 are leading brokers in the UK and therefore competitors will try to reach their clientele and draw them to switch.
Bitcoin is therefore not just the only asset on the list, beating out gold and oil that are always very popular terms, but the only one not directly associated with traditional online trading. This shows that retail brokers understand that cryptocurrency traders are the new generation of traders and not a passing fad.
In comparison, the top five popular organic keywords that are also now revealed are just the same term in different European languages: ‘währungsrechner’, ‘currency converter’, ‘конвертер валют’,  ‘cambio valuta’, and ‘conversor de moeda’.
Working for you
This is the latest publication from the FM Traffic Indices – a new cross-industry benchmark, created with a methodological formula that matriculates data from three main sources: brokers’ trading volumes, brokers’ traffic data and insider information.
In today’s business world, big-data analysis and access to objective information sources are crucial to success. Unfortunately, until now it has been very hard and costly, if possible at all, to find any reliable benchmarks for operations in social, FX and CFDs trading.
For this reason, the Finance Magnates Intelligence Department has launched a new project, creating a set of monthly indices encompassing various aspects of the online trading industry. These indices will provide you with unique data points gathered by our analysts that will serve as a valuable knowledge base for your decision making.
Want know more? Get the brand new FM Intelligence Report:
Per Quarter
€385
1 issue per Year
-
Digital Version delivered to your email
Annual
€1,375
4 issues per Year
Hard copy delivered to your address
Digital Version delivered to your email
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: Advertising / Binary Options Trading / bitcoin
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 7 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 9 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 10 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 10 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Swift is Not "a Legacy Incumbent that will be Doomed" by Blockchain
Blockchain May Solve Capital Markets’ Internal Reconciliation Problems
Anyone Can Now Start a Blockchain Thanks to Chain, Microsoft and IC3
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions