http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/trading/global-advisors-bitcoin-fund-set-for-channel-island-securities-exchange-listing/
Global Advisors Bitcoin Fund Set for Channel Islands Securities Exchange Listing | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyTradingGlobal Advisors Bitcoin Fund Set for Channel Islands Securities Exchange Listing
Global Advisors Bitcoin Fund Set for Channel Islands Securities Exchange Listing
A new prospectus reveals that the bitcoin custodians for the fund are Gemini Trust Company and itBit.
Avi Mizrahi | Trading (CryptoCurrency) | Monday, 31/10/2016|17:10 GMT
0
0
Photo: FM
Global Advisors (Jersey) Limited, a bitcoin asset manager and the guarantor of XBT’s Bitcoin Tracker One and Bitcoin Tracker EUR, has announced new custodians and extended trading powers for its flagship fund, Global Advisors Bitcoin Investment Fund PLC (GABI), detailed in a new prospectus.
Co-founder and CIO Daniel Masters says that the new developments pave the way for the GABI to list on the Channel Islands Securities Exchange as soon as this November.
Take the lead from today’s leaders. FM London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
The bitcoin custodians for the fund are Gemini Trust Company and itBit, both New York State-regulated bitcoin custodians. In addition to meeting the capitalization, reserve, compliance, consumer protection and cyber-security requirements of the New York State Department of Financial Services, the custodians will provide secured IT storage systems and cold storage vault systems for GABI’s bitcoin holdings.
New Manger Powers
In addition, the fund has added new powers allowing the manager to engage in cross-market arbitrage, futures-to-cash arbitrage, coin lending and leverage. The manager also maintains an account with Interactive Brokers LLC in order to be able to supplement the portfolio with interests in certain non-bitcoin commodity futures contracts such as oil, metals and currency pairs, with the aim of protecting and where possible enhancing returns by creating pair-trading and hedging opportunities. No more than 25% of the NAV (Net Asset Value) will be allocated to non-bitcoin based commodities.
The manager has also added the ability to trade in Crypto Delta One securities (CRYDOs). CRYDOs are securities traded on an electronic trading platform that offer indirect or synthetic exposure to the underlying price of bitcoin while not conveying explicit ownership of bitcoin. In this way they work similarly to CFDs in the equity world and can offer the benefits of cost saving and leverage – both as risk management and yield enhancement tools.
Daniel Masters, co-founder and CIO, Global Advisors Bitcoin Investment Fund
Mr. Masters says that the new powers could potentially allow the manager to add 6-10% in alpha return generation alongside the strong beta growth of bitcoin.
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: bitcoin ETF / itbit
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 9 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 11 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 12 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Jason Granger and Charlie Shrem Set to Launch Private Equity Investment Fund
Bitcoin Market Cap Above $12 Billion as Price Climbs Back to $750
Bitcoin Price Jumps Over $735 As Donald Trump Wins US Presidency
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions