http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/16/six-episodes-trust-disrupted-now-streaming/
All Six Episodes of "Trust Disrupted" Now Streaming - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
05:23 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
All Six Episodes of “Trust Disrupted” Now Streaming
Author
Nick Marinoff
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
55



If you’re up for a weekend of binge-watching, Trust Disrupted may be the show for you. The new series by TechCrunch, which delves deep into blockchain technology and digital currency usage, was announced earlier this month, and all six episodes are available to view.
While Trust may be the first television show to fully cover bitcoin, it’s not the first time the digital currency has made an appearance on a syndicated program. Fans of Mr. Robot on USA network were treated to a subplot last season involving a character who frustratingly starts bitcoin services, only to see his servers crash and his coins get stolen. A new show called StartUp by Sony has focused on digital currencies, while Amazon’s Betas featured an episode dedicated entirely to bitcoin. Now, Japan is producing a reality show entitled BitGirls that seeks to educate the public on digital currency and promote further usage. It certainly seems as though bitcoin is rising up the ranks and earning the familiarity and reputation it has long fought for.
All six episodes of Trust can be viewed either on TechCrunch or its respective YouTube channel. Below is a breakdown of each episode to give you an idea of what you’re missing:
Episode One – An explanation of the blockchain is offered, along with the developers’ motives. The episode will also talk about how the blockchain will be used in the future, and how banks and governments are looking to integrate its power.
Episode Two – This episode explores the world of bitcoin mining, and the growing role miners play.
Episode Three – Bitcoin is given the option of “choosing” an identity; what does it want to be, and how does it see itself working for others?
Episode Four – The rise of the blockchain is viewed from an expert’s point-of-view.
Episode Five – Ethereum is introduced. Host Nathaniel Popper examines the decentralized platform’s background, and what would happen should another major attack occur.
Episode Six – The war between the blockchain and Wall Street is covered.
55
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×