http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/17/bitcoin-price-watch-fresh-week-profits-ahead/
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Fresh Week of Profits Ahead - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
11:05 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Fresh Week of Profits Ahead
Author
Samuel Rae
Categories
Analysis, Bitcoin
34



SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
So here we go, off for a fresh week’s worth of trading in the bitcoin price. Last week we managed to get some pretty decent action, and this allowed us to pull out a couple of market profits. This week, we’re hoping for much of the same. Things have been relatively volatile over the weekend, and this bodes well going forward for today’s session. Even if it doesn’t suggest volume, it gives us some nice well defined levels to go at, and these levels can be easily incorporated in to today’s strategy.
So, with this in mind, and as we head into today’s session, let’s take a look at what’s going on in the bitcoin price, and where we can look to get in and out of the markets according to our intraday strategy this morning.
As ever, take a quick look at the chart below to get an idea of our focus areas. It’s a five minute candlestick chart and it has the last twelve hours or so worth of action displayed, with our key levels outlined in green.
Asthe chart shows, the range in focus for today’s session is defined by in term support to the downside at 641 and in term resistance to the upside at 646. We are going to focus purely on a breakout strategy this morning, so intrarange (at least for now) is not on the table.
If we see price run to the upside and get a break through resistance, we will get in long towards an immediate upside target of 652. This isn’t overly aggressive, but it gives us enough reward to go at price with a reasonably wide stop, and somewhere in the region of 643 flat looks good on the trade.
Looking south, a close below support will put us in a short trade towards 635. A stop on this one at 643 once again keeps a handle on our upside risk.
Happy trading!
Charts courtesy of SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
34
PUBLISHED BY
Samuel Rae
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
This article is Sponsored by
You'll can skip this Ad in 1 seconds...
SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before
130 COUNTRIES | 40000+ TRADERS