http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/23/bittorrent-bitcoin-netflix-competition/
Can BitTorrent and Lightning Give Netflix a Run for Its Money? - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:07 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Can BitTorrent and Lightning Give Netflix a Run for Its Money?
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News, Opinion
38



A combination of BitTorrent and Lightning network can potentially offer stiff competition to Netflix and similar services. Read more...
Luke Cage fans on Netflix had to go without their usual daily fix for a while last week, following a massive DDoS attack on the internet. While the DDoS attacks can be considered as acceptable risks for an internet based business, a combination of Bitcoin and BitTorrent presents itself as a huge threat to services like Netflix.
Since Bitcoin gained popularity, it was considered as an ideal method for micropayments. The low transmission cost advantage which Bitcoin had in the early days gradually wore off due to increased network usage and lack of scaling. Now a solution in the form of Lightning Network is at sight. As Bitcoin Core prepares to introduce SegWit in the next update, Lightning network for micropayments may soon become a reality. With Lightning network, streaming sites can have an open payments channel for each customer allowing them to automatically pay for what they watch. A combination of Lightning and Torrent streaming services may soon give Netflix a run for their money.
 Is BitTorrent Better than Netflix
The BitTorrent network has a huge customer base which goes many folds higher than that of Netflix, which makes it easy to access to a majority of internet savvy population cross the world. In addition, the use of BitTorrent network is prevalent across the world whereas the reach of Netflix is not as extensive.
With a customer base already primed and ready to use torrent streaming services, any BitTorrent based video streaming service with digital micropayments can readily capture a huge chunk of Netflix’s customers. Not to mention fresh customers who may have eventually joined Netflix. There are a couple of micropayments enabled, BitTorrent based streaming sites in the works and expected to be launched soon. It is just a matter of time before the shift in on-demand video streaming industry takes place.
Challenges Faced by BitTorrent-Based Streaming Services
So far it is clear that the right combination of Bitcoin and BitTorrent can give Netflix a tough competition. However, it may be a bit challenging for such platforms to get the required permissions and licensing from the producers of movies and TV shows right away as they still have to build a reputation in the industry. Netflix scores high in this criteria at the moment.
Ref: Medium |VentureBeat | Image: Netflix
The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of NewsBTC
38
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×