http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/20/mexican-bitcoin-trading-volume-grows-local-banks-pass-donald-trump-stress-test/
Mexican Bitcoin Trading Volume Grows As Local Banks Pass "Donald Trump Stress Test"
25-11-2016
08:47 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Mexican Bitcoin Trading Volume Grows As Local Banks Pass “Donald Trump Stress Test”
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
60



New weekly trading volume charts on LocalBitcoins show Mexico has a great appetite for cryptocurrency.
The Mexican banking sector is going into some contingency mode right now. If Donald Trump were to win the presidential elections, the banking system in the country would come under a lot of pressure. Financial regulators have ordered all institutions to conduct stress tests modeled after a Trump victory. At the same time, Bitcoin adoption in the country continues its upward trend.
Ever since Donald Trump mentioned his plan to block remittances from the US to Mexico if he became president, the Mexican banking system has been under pressure. To make sure local institutions could keep up with consumer demand if that became a reality, several stress tests need to be conducted.
Successful Trump Stress Test For Mexican Banks
While there will a scheduled annual stress test as well, this additional simulation is direly needed. While no one in their right mind would want to see Trump for President of the US, it is a 50/50 chance. If it were to happen, Mexico’s economy would go through a volatile period. Preparing for the worst is never a bad idea, even if it would turn out to have been unnecessary later on.
The Financial System Stability Board mentioned the Mexican banking sector maintains sufficient levels of capital and liquidity. This is positive news for Mexican banks, as they should be able to stave off major problems. However, one never knows how such a scenario plays out until it happens.
If Donald Trump would become president, he plans to rewrite the North American Free Trade Agreement. To be more precise, this would put Mexico in an awkward financial position. Moreover, he also plans to build a wall on the border between the two countries, and the Mexicans will pay for it as well. Very bold statements, but not entirely unrealistic by any means.
While this financial turmoil is going on, things are evolving behind the scenes as well. New weekly trading volume charts on LocalBitcoins show Mexico has a great appetite for the cryptocurrency. It is possible some people are hedging against future financial troubles. At the same time, Bitcoin is the only global payment in the world that is not controlled by banks or governments.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
143
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×