http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/21/endorphina-game-pays-150-btc-mbit-casino/
Endorphina Game Pays Over 150 BTC at mBit Casino!
25-11-2016
05:37 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
CRYPTOCURRENCY ANALYSIS
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Downtrend Intact
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Showing Positive Signs
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Trend Bearish
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Buyers Make It?
ViaBTC Receives Mysterious 210 Bitcoin Deposit To Cloud Mining Address
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Endorphina Game Pays Over 150 BTC at mBit Casino!
Author
Guest Author
Categories
Press Release



Just this past week, another lucky player booked a huge win while playing at mBit Casino. This time, the player won more than 150 BTC in a single day.
MBit Casino is not new to having big winners walk through its doors. A few notable players have booked hundreds of bitcoins in winnings over the past year. This has included a 100+ BTC winner just a few months ago and even a 260 BTC winner last year. Among some of the biggest wins here, however, have come from many of the popular Endorphina slot games.
Just this past week, another lucky player booked a huge win while playing at mBit Casino. This time, the player won more than 150 BTC in a single day at Endorphina slot games, primarily 4 of a King. The winner played slots for several hours while booking their massive win. A majority of the winning spins came from large bonus rounds at 4 of a King. Below is one of the larger wins from this players’ big day:
As of now, Endorphina has developed a total of 35 games, all of which are available at mBit Casino. Each game provided by Endorphina accepts only bitcoins, and they are quickly becoming the preferred brand in online bitcoin slots. You can view all Endorphina Slot games here by selecting Endorphina from the “Providers” dropdown. If you do not already have an account, be sure to sign up today and take advantage of the generous bonuses offered at mBit Casino.
MBit Casino has never missed a single cashout since opening its doors in 2014. What’s more, their leading VIP Program has been drawing in more and more high rollers since re-launching two months ago with an improved framework. This combination of trust, reliability, VIP rewards and fun have come together perfectly, and prove that mBit Casino is truly the premier bitcoin gambling website.
mBit Casino is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to FDIC and other consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only.
About Bitcoin PR Buzz:
Bitcoin PR Buzz has been proudly serving the PR and marketing needs of Bitcoin and digital currency tech start-ups for over 2 years. Get your own professional Bitcoin and digital currency Press Release. Click here for more information.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
Company Contact
Company Name
mBit Casino
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.