http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/11/next-treasury-secretary-crypto-industry/
The Next US Treasury Secretary May Make or Break the Crypto-Industry - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
08:29 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
The Next US Treasury Secretary May Make or Break the Crypto-Industry
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News



The cryptocurrency industry is closely observing the upcoming changes to the US Government as the search for the new Treasury Secretary continues. Read more...
The change of guard in the White House is imminent after Donald Trump won the US Presidential Elections. As the new president takes up his position, there are plenty of positions in the government that needs to be filled as well.  The US Treasury Department is also in need of a new head and going by the reports, Jamie Dimon may be up for that position.
Reported on one of the leading business news portal, the Chief of JPMorgan is being under consideration.  However, it is not clear whether Dimon feels the same about the position. Another speculation is that the former Goldman Sachs official Steven Mnuchin may also be in the game as another contender.
While there is no way of deciding who will be taking up the position at this moment, one thing is clear; whoever takes up the position will have a lot of say in the country’s monetary system. It also means that the future of digital currency revolution in the country is directly related to the person who will take charge of the office. The Treasury Secretary plays the role of a principal economic advisor to the President and he or she has a crucial role in framing the economic and financial policies of the government.
In the current scenario, the US government agencies are more receptive towards the use of cryptocurrency technology for banking, financial and various other applications, including military and border control operations. However, the cryptocurrencies have failed to receive a similar kind of support. There have been numerous instances where, due to lack of clear regulations, law enforcement agencies have arrested individuals for unlawful transmission and exchange of funds while dealing with Bitcoin.
It is not sure how the next Treasury Secretary with a banking experience will be helpful for the cryptocurrency industry as the banks have always been at loggerheads with cryptocurrencies. There are currently no indications about how supportive either of the candidates is towards the cryptocurrency’s cause. Until we see them in action, the industry will continue monitoring the developments with lots of apprehensions and expectations.
Ref: CNBC | Image: WikiMedia
  PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.