http://www.coindesk.com/gavin-andresen-regrets-role-satoshi-nakamoto-saga/
Gavin Andresen Now Regrets Role in Satoshi Nakamoto Saga - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$730
$735
$739
USD -0.14%
$737.28
CNY 0.19%
¥5,194.62
EUR €695.92
GBP £590.66
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
NEWS  •  TECHNOLOGY
Gavin Andresen Now Regrets Role in Satoshi Nakamoto Saga
Michael del Castillo (@DelRayMan) | Published on November 16, 2016 at 18:00 GMT
NEWS
242
48
4
The last person known to communicate directly with bitcoin's pseudonymous creator says he now regrets getting involved in an effort early this year to reveal that person's identity.
In a blog post published today, the former lead maintainer of Bitcoin Core, bitcoin's dominant software project, Gavin Andresen wrote that regardless of the veracity of this person's claims he believes the public should "ignore him."
Andresen wrote:
"I regret ever getting involved in the 'Who was Satoshi?' game, and am going to spend my time on more fun and productive pursuits."
The statements come months after Gizmodo and Wired published articles that identified Australian academic Craig Wright as Nakamoto in May, and statements made by Andresen supporting the finding (though soon after, the reveal was disputed).
The following month, it was revealed that Wright was pursing a series of blockchain patents, giving him a potential financial motive for the claim.
Andresen elaborated on the fall-out after those events in today's post:
"Either he was Satoshi, but really wants the world to think he isn't, so he created an impossible-to-untangle web of truths, half-truths and lies. And ruined his reputation in the process."
Andresen directly addresses his audience imploring them to ignore Wright, regardless of the veracity of his claims. Instead, he says to leave the potential fraudulent claim to the alleged victims and law enforcement.
As for those "more fun pursuits," we've reached out to Andresen for further comment, but at press time, have received no response.
Gavin Andresen image via Flickr
Craig WrightGavin AndresenSatoshi Nakamoto
242
48
4
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Korea Exchange Launches Blockchain-Powered Private Market
NEXT ARTICLE
ASX Exec Calls for Blockchain Use in Healthcare
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
NEWS
Jun 20, 2016 at 17:48 | Stan Higgins
The Man Who Claims to Be Bitcoin's Creator is Seeking Blockchain Patents
Alleged bitcoin creator Craig Wright is reportedly moving to secure patents focused on blockchain and digital currencies.
OPINION
May 12, 2016 at 16:26 | Frank Schuil
Why Satoshi Nakamoto's Identity Matters
In this opinion piece, one bitcoin CEO argues that Satoshi Nakamoto's identity does matter, despite claims otherwise from the community.
NEWS
May 5, 2016 at 14:22 | Stan Higgins
Craig Wright Won't Provide More Proof He Created Bitcoin
In a stunning reversal, Craig Wright says he will not provide any more proof that he is the creator of bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto.
NEWS
May 4, 2016 at 21:40 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Markets Hold Steady, But Brace for More Craig Wright Details
Bitcoin markets experienced little change on 2nd May in response to Craig Wright’s claim that he is the digital currency’s creator, Satoshi…
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.