http://www.coindesk.com/bitcoin-exchange-guilty-obstruction/
Father of Bitcoin Exchange Operator Pleads Guilty to Obstruction - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$731
$735
$739
USD -0.15%
$737.20
CNY 0.12%
¥5,190.81
EUR €695.85
GBP £590.60
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
COMPANIES  •  CRIME  •  NEWS
Father of Bitcoin Exchange Operator Pleads Guilty to Obstruction
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 28, 2016 at 19:09 GMT
NEWS
250
29
4
A Florida man pled guilty yesterday after being indicted in a case tied to the now-defunct Florida bitcoin exchange Coin.mx.
Michael Murgio, father of Coin.mx operator Anthony Murgio, allegedly took part in a plan to gain control of a New Jersey credit union. That plan, according to prosecutors, involved paying off senior officials at the Hope Federal Credit Union, which has since been shuttered.
The elder Murgio was arrested in April, and this week pled guilty to a charge of conspiracy to obstruct an examination of a federal financial institution. He faces as many as five years in prison.
As reported by Reuters, Murgio admitted to writing a letter to credit union regulators in 2014 that contained false information.
Coin.mx was shuttered last summer after its operators were charged with unlawful money transmission and money laundering. Federal prosecutors have tied the Coin.mx exchange to a wider plot to hack financial institutions two years ago, including JPMorgan. Those running the exchange were accused of acting as a financial conduit for a global cybercrime network – an allegation the defendants have denied.
Michael Murgio previously served as a county school board member in Palm Beach, Florida, a position from which he resigned after he was indicted earlier this year, according to The Palm Beach Post.
Others tied to the alleged credit union capture continue to face trial.
Pastor Trevón Gross, who at the time as chairman of the credit union, was indicted in March for allegedly taking the bribes, though he has denied the charge. Another defendant, Yuri Lebedev, was accused of taking part in the alleged scheme but has also plead not guilty.
Anthony Murgio has denied the allegations against him, and is expected to face trial early next year. He plead not guilty last November.
Image via Shutterstock
Coin.mxFloridaJPMorgan
250
29
4
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
The Zcash Blockchain is Now Live
NEXT ARTICLE
Bitcoin and Zcash: How Do They Compare?
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
NEWS
Oct 3, 2016 at 14:50 | Stan Higgins
JP Morgan is Quietly Developing a Private Ethereum Blockchain
Wall Street megabank JP Morgan has co-developed a permissioned version of the Ethereum network.
NEWS
Sep 20, 2016 at 00:19 | Stan Higgins
Federal Judge Rules Bitcoin is Money in US Trial
A federal judge in New York has ruled that bitcoin constitutes a form of money.
NEWS
Sep 6, 2016 at 12:50 | Stan Higgins
Florida Senator Drafting Bill That Could Recognize Bitcoin as Money
A Florida state senator is drafting legislation that could see bitcoin recognized as a form of money in the US state.
NEWS
Aug 22, 2016 at 22:35 | Stan Higgins
Florida Files Appeal After Charges Against Bitcoin Seller Dismissed
The state of Florida has appealed a recent court decision that saw a judge rule bitcoin isn't money.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact