http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/11/callcoin-telegram-bot-international-calls/
Callcoin Telegram Bot Offers International Calling for Bitcoin - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
11:09 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Callcoin Telegram Bot Offers International Calling for Bitcoin
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News
27



Callcoin, the Telegram bot allows users to make telephone calls to any international number at cheap prices. The bot accepts Bitcoin payments. Read more...
A group comprising developers from Latvia and Canada has launched a Telegram-based international calling service for Bitcoin users.
Callcoin, as the bot is titled, utilises Telegram’s third party application feature to provide cheap calling services. Unlike a standard Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service, Callcoin relies on the callback feature over regular mobile telephony to provide the aforementioned facilities.
120 Minutes, the brain behind the creation of Callcoin, confirmed in its recent press release that they will be accepting Bitcoin as the only method of payment. It further explained how users will be able to access international calling feature. A translated version from the available excerpt:
In order to start using Callcoin, users will have to open their Telegram app, search for “@callcoinbot”. Upon joining the bot, they will be required to enter a phone number to receive callbacks and then they are done. First-time users will receive an EUR 0.5 credit for test calls along with an EU phone number on rent for 1 month.
In order to make a call, the user will have to either enter the number or select it from their address book. Upon selecting the number, they will receive a callback, connecting them to the number to which they wanted to call. Users can top up their Callcoin account either by paying with Bitcoin or by entering a previously purchased code. The Callcoin codes will be made available in stores selling digital goods.
The Callcoin bot on the instant messaging application of Russian origin is available in two languages; Russian and English. 120 Minutes expect at least 100,000 users to start using the bot within one year.
VoIP Still a Better Solution
It is to note that Callcoin is not the first service that offers international calling for Bitcoin users. In past, there have been many companies that are working independently in offering similar calling features. But unlike Callcoin, they all rely on VoIP standards.
To name a few, VOIP Supply, Call with Us are some of the renowned calling services in Bitcoin community. Letsbrik.co has also impressed users for its ability to offer a Skype-like experience in making international and local calls.
  Ref: RBC-Ukraine
27
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×