http://themerkle.com/jeff-garzik-blockstream-will-help-bitcoin-grow-into-the-future/
Jeff Garzik: “Blockstream Will Help Bitcoin Grow into The Future” – The Merkle
MENU
HomeNewsCryptocurrencyJeff Garzik: “Blockstream Will Help Bitcoin Grow into The Future”
Jeff Garzik: “Blockstream Will Help Bitcoin Grow into The Future”
JP Buntinx October 5, 2016 Cryptocurrency, News
The world of Bitcoin and cryptocurrency never has a dull moment. Now that Blockstream has officially appointed Adam Back as their CEO, a few interesting things are bound to happen soon. But Jeff Garzik, who runs his own company called Bloq, hinted at a potential partnership between both groups.
JEFF GARZIK REMAINS KEEN ON BLOCKSTREAM
The name Blockstream has been a topic of substantial controversy among Bitcoin enthusiasts over the past few years. Even though this group of developers and engineers is looking to improve the Bitcoin ecosystem, there are lots of people in the community who feel they are trying to bring Bitcoin down eventually.
While there may have been some dubious discussions involving Blockstream in the past, they continue to receive a lot of support as well. Jeff Garzik, one of the most prominent people in the Bitcoin world, has high hopes for what the team is trying to achieve. In fact, he feels Blockstream will “help Bitcoin grow into the future”.
This is a strong sentiment, and one that will hopefully come true. While Bitcoin is not designed to be steered in one particular direction by a group of coders, somebody has to propose improvements and changes to the code as they see fit. It is still up to the community to accept or reject these changes when they are implemented in a new Bitcoin Core client.
What is rather interesting is how Jeff Garzik openly hinted at “working together with Adam Back”, the newly appointed CEO of Blockstream. This does not necessarily mean that Garzik will jump ship to the company, as they are both working towards the same goal. Making Bitcoin better and more robust is the top priority for both men.
It is possible we may see some collaboration between Bloq, the company run by Jeff Garzik, and Blockstream. Whether or not this will be a formal effort or just a continuation of what has been going on behind the scenes for years now, remains unknown. But it is good to see both men look towards the future where Bitcoin is concerned, as things need to be taken to the next level sooner rather than later.
Image credit 1
If you liked this article, follow us on Twitter @themerklenews and make sure to subscribe to our newsletter to receive the latest bitcoin, cryptocurrency, and technology news.
Related Posts
Hivemind is A Prediction Market For Bitcoin Users
Garza Shuts Down Zenminer Mining Services Without Notice
Half the companies in the world are pro bitcoin
About The Author
Jdebunt
JP Buntinx is a 30-year old FinTech and Bitcoin enthusiast living in Belgium. His passion for finance and technology made him one of the world's leading freelance Bitcoin writers, and he is working to achieve the same level of respect in the FinTech sector.
SEARCH SITE
Search
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
Samsung Pay Incentivizes Users With New Rewards …
November 15, 2016
Visa Wants To Replace Passwords With Multiple …
November 15, 2016
OCBC Bank Pilots Blockchain-based Funds Transfer Between …
November 15, 2016
SUBSCRIBE
Subscribe to our mailing list
RECENT POSTS
Incent To Offer Its ICO Technology To Other Organizations Focusing On Loyalty Rewards November 25, 2016
Developing Nations Show A Great Appetite For Payment Card Acceptance November 25, 2016
POPULAR POSTS
WhatsApp Looks To Integrate Two-factor Authentication Shortly
November 12, 2016
Facebook And Google Will Penalize Sites Publishing …
November 15, 2016
CONNECT WITH US
The Merkle Copyright © 2016.