http://www.cnbc.com/2016/10/31/new-bitcoin-rival-promises-anonymity-for-online-purchases.html
New bitcoin rival promises anonymity for online purchases
HOME U.S.
NEWS
MARKETS
INVESTING
TECH
MAKE IT
VIDEO
SHOWS
MORE
SUBSCRIBE ›
PRO
LIVE TV
WATCHLIST

BREAKING:  Fidel Castro dead at 90: Cuban TV
BITCOIN
New bitcoin rival promises anonymity for online purchases
Luke Graham | @LukeWGraham
Monday, 31 Oct 2016 | 11:31 AM ET
CNBC.com
61
SHARES
5
COMMENTSJoin the Discussion
A new cryptocurrency launched late last week, claiming to allow users to make online purchases anonymously and sparking controversy and a negative reaction from the authorities.
Zcash launched last Friday and is currently worth $498 dollars per coin, in comparison to $706 for one bitcoin.
Zcash uses a technique called "zero-knowledge proofs" to ensure coin exchanges are valid but without revealing extra information to either user. It conceals identifying information from the public blockchain - the massive public ledger that records all transactions of a digital currency - which effectively allows Zcash users to make private and anonymous exchanges.
Donald Iain Smith | Blend Images | Getty
"Companies need the protection of privacy along their supply chain in order to conduct their business, especially in the context of public blockchains," the Zcash company says on its website.
"In addition, we believe that personal privacy is necessary for core human values like dignity, intimacy, and morality."
But is this level of anonymity technologically possible? Tom Robinson, COO and co-founder of bitcoin specialists Elliptic says it is. Elliptic is able to trace bitcoin transactions and link them to a real world address, helping law enforcement around the globe track illicit activity involving bitcoin.
"I think that it's certainly possible to have a high level of anonymity and Zcash seems to have achieved that," he told CNBC during a phone interview.
However, anonymity could be a barrier to the potential success of Zcash, as it may not receive support from businesses or officials.
"Bitcoin has been accepted by regulators and government because there is some level of accountability," explained Robinson.
Zcash is not the first cryptocurrency to offer advanced anonymity features. Another example is Monero, which claims to offer uses untraceable transactions and private purchases.
According to Robinson, there is demand for greater anonymity among users of crypto currencies as more and more realize that bitcoin can be traced. The main use case for anonymity is for buyers wishing to make purchases from the so-called dark web, an encrypted network of the internet where users can buy illicit items including drugs.
How governments react to Zcash's promise of anonymity will be an important indicator for the wider use and acceptance of cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin, according to Charles Hayter, CEO and founder of Crypto Compare.
"There has been growing interest by the security services from a number of countries in tracking bitcoin after rumours of terrorist activity using the digital currency. The use on the darknet for buying drugs or other illicit will no doubt be a worry and will lead to regulation and blanket bans," Hayter said in a note.
"How founders, partners and investors are treated if there is jarring with authorities will again be a litmus test to the intentions of the authorities."
However, Robinson also pointed out that Zcash has been created by a private company, which - while it does not have to rely on the open-source community to develop the currency as with bitcoin -- could potentially be sued by governments or regulators in order to reveal information.
Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.
Luke Graham
Blog Writer, CNBC.com
by Taboola
MORE FROM CNBC
This is the greatest suckers' rally of all time: David Stockman
Self-made millionaire shares the only way to get really, really rich
Melania Trump is set to be a long-distance first lady
Donald Trump supporters target billionaire investor George Soros over protests
Warren Buffett sees $11 billion boom on Donald Trump win
These three stocks will send the Dow to 20,000
  by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
FROM THE WEB
Revolutionary Way to Stop Snoring
My Snoring Solution
13 Living Rooms that Pack a Punch of Colour
Financial Times for Sotheby's
1,000,000 are using this app to learn a new language
Babbel
SHOW COMMENTS
  by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
FROM THE WEB
A Solution That Puts Snoring to Bed
My Snoring Solution
WEF Global risk of highest concern for doing business, by country, 2016
Financial Times for Zurich
1,000,000 Have Adopted This New Way To Learn A Foreign Language
Babbel
The Ultimate Way to Get Cheap Hotel Rooms
Save70.com
by Taboola
This is the greatest suckers' rally of all time: David Stockman
Self-made millionaire shares the only way to get really, really rich
Melania Trump is set to be a long-distance first lady
Donald Trump supporters target billionaire investor George Soros over protests
Warren Buffett sees $11 billion boom on Donald Trump win
These three stocks will send the Dow to 20,000
BINGE
Filmmaker Ken Burns is scared of what he sees in Donald Trump
Here’s what Steve Jobs had to give Ken Burns to create the 'Ken Burns' effect for iMovie
The Ken Burns binge effect: Steve Jobs, Donald Trump and the birth of binge-watching   
Ken Burns: The media gets Steve Jobs wrong   
Steve Jobs once told Ken Burns he should ditch PBS because they weren’t paying him enough
AdChoices