http://www.onlinecasinoreports.com/articles/satoshi-dice-provides-unique-bitcoin-gambling-experience.php
Satoshi Dice Provides Unique Bitcoin Gambling Experience | Online Casino Reports
Toggle navigation
Rate it!
     9.8
$1200 Bonus Package
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.7
Bonus de Bienvenida
100% hasta $200
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.7
$200 Welcome Bonus
Code: SLOTS200
Get My Bonus
Rate it!
     9.1
$350 Bonus Package
Code: YES
Get My Bonus

Home News
Satoshi Dice Provides Unique Bitcoin Gambling Experience
Published October 1, 2016 by Ivan P
Satoshi Dice revolves around a rather simple, yet highly entertaining Satoshi Dice game, where you get to pick the odds.
The world of online casinos is an exciting one, but for the most part you will find a lot of same or similar games wherever you turn. In that regard, Satoshi Dice can offer a really different and unique experience, even if based on a rather simple principle.
About Satoshi Dice Casino
Founded in 2012 as a Bitcoin-only casino, Satoshi Dice managed to find a huge success with a very limited game offering. At first, they only offered Satoshi Dice game to their players and despite the fact this game is essentially very simple, it was well received with the players.
What has attracted players to Satoshi Dice over the years is the fact they offer provably fair games and their Return To Player is a matter of public knowledge. Due to the way their main game operates, there is no room for guessing. You know exactly what you are getting into.
About Satoshi Dice the Game
You don't need any expert knowledge to play Satoshi Dice and there are no hidden strategies that can help you beat the house. It is all fairly straightforward, yet highly entertaining.
To begin with, you pick a number between 1 and 64,225. Then you wager an amount you want to risk that a number smaller than your pick is going to come on the next roll. And then you roll the dice. That's all there is to it.
Picking number 1 offers the best payout of 64,290.9x your bet. Conversely, picking 64,225 only offers 1.0012x payout. Since there are 65,536 numbers on the virtual dice, the range that players are not able to select is, in fact, the house edge, and it amounts to 2%.
Satoshi Slot
Apart from their Dice game, the casino also decided to introduce an online slot to their offer, realizing that players like to have some variety. Satoshi Slot was well received within the Bitcoin gambling community, as it offers exciting gameplay and an opportunity to win up to 513 times your bet on every individual spin.
The slot features free spins triggered by scatter symbols (Bitcoin) appearing on the reels, and during these spins, there are 40 extra wild symbols added across the reels.
Play the House
Apart from their games, Satoshi Dice used the fact that they operate in Bitcoins and offered their players a chance to play the house. You can invest an amount of your choosing and you will be awarded your share of any casino profits based on your participation in the casino's total bankroll.
See also
Gambling Industry Could be Bitcoin's Salvation
Spain Closes Bitcoin Gambling Loopholes
The Future Impact of Bitcoin on Online Gambling
The Impact of Bitcoin on Online Gambling
Conventional Casinos Open up to Bitcoin Gambling

Bonuses
JACKPOT CITY CASINO
FREE SPINS BONUS
365
Exclusive
Free Slots Bonus
PLAY NOW
7SULTANS CASINO
FREE SPINS BONUS
30
  Free Slots Bonus
PLAY NOW
PLATINUM PLAY CASINO
WELCOME BONUS
$200
  100% Match Bonus
Min. Deposit: $10
PLAY NOW
YES! I WANT TO KNOW ABOUT EXCLUSIVE BONUSES, PROMOTIONS, AND NEWS.
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Navigation
Casinos
Bonuses
Games
Guides
News
Directory
Seal of Approval
Forum
Blacklisted Casinos
Popular Pages
Top Casinos
Exclusive Bonuses
No Deposit Bonuses
Mobile Casinos
Live Dealers
Free Casino Games
Progressive Jackpots
Live Streams
Apps
Games
Online Blackjack
Online Craps
Online Baccarat
Online Slots
Online Video Poker
Online Roulette
Online Hi-Lo
Online Casino Reports
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletter
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
Add Your Brand
Sitemap
Blog
Frequently Asked Questions
Responsible Gambling
International Sites


Online Casino Reports
onlinecasinoreports.com ©2016