http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/06/chinese-government-bitcoin-trading/
Is the Chinese Government Really Cracking down on Bitcoin Trading? - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
06:37 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Is the Chinese Government Really Cracking down on Bitcoin Trading?
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News, Opinion
94



True or False? The Chinese government intends to curb capital outflow by cracking down on Bitcoin trading. Read more...
A couple of days ago news reports about the Chinese government’s decision to crackdown on Bitcoin trading to curb capital outflow started making rounds. The news created panic among Bitcoin traders, leading to a sudden slump in the digital currency’s price. The cryptocurrency which was trading at around $730s suddenly fell below the $700 mark.
The report of China tightening its screws around Bitcoin transactions as a part of its capital control measure is a plausible story. However, doubts about the genuineness of the news report have since been raised by few bloggers and websites. In one such financial blog, the author claims that the website which first published the story might have faked it or published it without verifying the authenticity of the information.
The author supports his theory by stating various reliable and reputed sources which failed to make a mention or even acknowledge the reports of the Chinese government waking up to increased cryptocurrency trading in the country. Furthermore, the author points out that the source mentioned in the original article hasn’t identified himself or herself, which raises more questions than answers.
The article also presents a different view on all the recent trends in the cryptocurrency and global economic sector. For starters, the author writes that the Chinese government doesn’t really care about Bitcoin as the country’s economy is much stronger than it is thought to be. The country receives enough interests from appreciating bonds and commodities to keep the economy cushioned. On the other hand, with respect to the devaluation of yuan, the author reasons that the apparent devaluation is because of the government’s earlier decision to unpeg yuan from USD.
The article also goes on to explain that the actual growth in Bitcoin adoption has happened in countries like India, Venezuela, Egypt and others, whereas the Chinese trading activity has remained constant or maintained a natural progression of growth/decline.
Going by the article, one may end up being convinced that China has no major role to play in driving the Bitcoin market demand or the prices. It also gives a different perspective into the correlation between the understanding of market dynamics and its effect on profitable trading.
At first glance, the article seems to be a well thought-out. However, erring towards the side of caution, unless the Chinese government or any other official source confirms or denies the report of extension of capital controls on Bitcoin, we can’t be completely sure about the new developments in the cryptocurrency sector.
Ref: FinTekNeeks |Image: NewsBTC

Disclaimer: The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of NewsBTC.
83
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×