http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/26/bitcoin-benefits-online-gaming-industry/
How Bitcoin Benefits the Online Gaming Industry
25-11-2016
06:38 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
How Bitcoin Benefits the Online Gaming Industry
Author
News BTC
Categories
Opinion
83



Whether you’re into online sports betting or playing online poker, here are some ways that the bitcoin has changed, and improved, the online gaming industry.
Even though cryptocurrency is relatively new in comparison to the history of online gaming, the bitcoin has made a number of positive changes to the online gaming industry and it looks like it may be here to stay. While many of us are familiar with the advantages of using bitcoin for a variety of online businesses, unless you’re a hardcore and frequent online gamer, the benefits of cryptocurrency has probably been overlooked. Whether you’re into online sports betting or playing online poker, here are some ways that the bitcoin has changed, and improved, the online gaming industry:
Security
Living in an “online world” making multiple purchases every day on everything from basic needs to leisurely activities like online gambling, security is crucial, but many of us may overlook whether or not we can trust a specific site with our money. Unless you are trained to spot some “red flags”, an insecure site may go undetected and we aren’t aware until our money and personal information is compromised. Cryptocurrency, on the other hand, is one of the most secure ways to pay. Although the bitcoin hasn’t always been the most secure form of payment, improved software and increased user knowledge (such as keeping your online wallet safe) has proven to be one of the best and most secure ways to spend your money.
Anonymity
Security and anonymity often go hand in hand, but unfortunately, it’s not always the way it goes when spending money online. Your money may be secure, but your personal information may not. While many online gamers may have nothing to hide and maybe quite proud of their status throughout certain online gaming communities, others may not feel comfortable or interested in sharing anything about themselves. As a consumer, you should always have the option as to whether or not you want your personal information shared or not; cryptocurrency gives you one less thing to worry about.
More For Your Money
According to an online casino blog, online sports betting offers some of the biggest payouts and thanks to bitcoin, getting the most out of your winnings is possible. Traditionally, credit cards, bank transfers, and using services like PayPal are not as cost effective as the bitcoin. In short, the bitcoin was created as online currency and it works better than anything else, plus, there’s no hidden fees for using bitcoin.
An added bonus to using bitcoin is that there’s little to no waiting for your money to move. For instance, how many times have you had to wait for your payment to be “approved” before you could play a game? Additionally, if you’re awaiting winnings, you’ll get them more quickly than having to wait for money to be transferred to your bank or into an account (such as PayPal).
Widely Accepted
Remember the good old days when certain credit cards were widely accepted everywhere? The bitcoin has replaced this seemingly archaic form of payment and is accepted across the globe. You can play internationally without worrying about security or even exchange rates.
Cover Image via Kathy
83
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×