https://ibsintelligence.com/ibs-journal/ibs-news/bitcoin-challenger-zcash-claims-stricter-anonymity/
Bitcoin challenger Zcash claims stricter anonymity - IBS Intelligence
   IBS Newsletter
Register/Log In
Contact Us
Your Cart - £0.00
Menu
1
NOV 2016
Bitcoin challenger Zcash claims stricter anonymity
Previous | Next
 Zcash, a new form of cryptocurrency, launched last week amid resounding claims about privacy and security. The Bitcoin challenger, which allows users to make online purchases anonymously, was first developed at the beginning of the year, with a number of investors jumping on board.
The currency uses zero-knowledge proofs to ensure coin exchanges are valid without revealing any information to either party in a transaction. Zcash also eliminates any information from the public blockchain, adding to its claim to be a better anonymous cryptocurrency than Bitcoin.
Companies need the protection of privacy along their supply chain in order to conduct their business, especially in the context of public blockchains,” Zcash says on its website. “In addition, we believe that personal privacy is necessary for core human values like dignity, intimacy, and morality.”
While Bitcoin has generally tried to remove itself from its so-called “dark past”, where goods such as weapons, drugs and illegal services were exchanged using the currency, it seems Zcash is embracing that kind of world.
Zcash is currently valued at $498 per coin, compared to $706 for Bitcoin. The firm also uses a “for-profit” model, whereby every transaction is taxed 11%.
By Alex Hamilton
Follow Alex at @ADHamilton91
Related
Trump presidency could be good for Bitcoin
Central Bank of Kenya not a fan of Bitcoin
Mastercard President not too fond of Bitcoin
Bitso Bitcoin startup completes $2.5m funding round
Circle breaks into Europe to offer Bitcoin purchasing
Powered by
Related Reports
Core Banking Systems Case Studies
£2,000.00
ADD TO CART
Core Banking Systems Market Dynamics Report 2016
£2,000.00
ADD TO CART
IBS Journal

£545.00
SELECT OPTIONS
Universal Banking Systems Report
£1,500.00
ADD TO CART


Advertise with us
Weekly Round-up – 28th October
Market News
About IBS
IBS Journal
Reports
Consulting
Buy
Events
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Terms & Conditions
Why buy from us
© IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC.
Developed by: Pi Techniques