https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/btcc-launches-new-usd-bitcoin-exchange/
BTCC Launches New USD/Bitcoin Exchange - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin ExchangeBitcoin TradingNews
BTCC Launches New USD/Bitcoin Exchange
Elliot Maras on 04/11/2016

Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
BTCC has launched a new BTC/USD exchange designed in collaboration with leading bitcoin traders, featuring industry-leading rates and a multi-tier referral program to maximize passive income.
Bobby Lee, BTCC CEO, said BTCC USD Exchange is the most accessible bitcoin exchange ever developed. “We consolidated, crystallized, and applied customer feedback from our five years of operation to create the ideal exchange — one that is easy to use and access, with an intuitive interface that creates an effortless trading experience,” he said.
Special Features
T
he new exchange has a fast trading engine, FIX APIs, and a multi-tier referral program, in which customers can get up to 33 percent of referees’ trading fees.
Samson Mow, BTCC’s chief operating officer, said a lot of time was spent working to create a high-performance platform that gives excellent service for both retail and professional traders. “Also, one of our major focuses in developing the exchange was ensuring that we offer customers convenient funding options, including credit cards and more,” he noted.
Rather than reducing fees for liquidity providers like most bitcoin exchanges do, the exchange’s maker-taker model pays makers — those customers placing limit orders that add to the bid or ask in the order book — 0.05 percent of the order’s value.
Also read: Bobby Lee on bitcoin in China: Business as usual
Traders Paid To Add Liquidity
The exchange is the only bitcoin spot exchange paying traders for adding liquidity to the order book.
Mikael Wang, chief technology officer, said additional order types, trading pairs and other features are planned.
BTCC is also working with Blockstream to test and deploy the Liquid sidechain, allowing traders to move funds between BTCC and other participating exchanges immediately.
Image from Shutterstock.
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Bitcoin Exchange, Bitcoin Trading, News Tagged in: bobby lee, BTCC, Mikael Wang

Recent Posts
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
Advertisement
NextThai Bank Partners IBM for Blockchain-Based Certification of Documents04/11/2016
PreviousBitcoin Price Breaks at a Telling Moment04/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.