http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/25/south-korea-announces-progressive-reforms-fintech-bitcoin-industry/
South Korea Announces Progressive Reforms for FinTech, Bitcoin Industry
25-11-2016
06:23 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
South Korea Announces Progressive Reforms for FinTech, Bitcoin Industry
Author
Gola Yashu
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, Featured, News, Start-ups
56



FSC plans to raise policy loan support to $USD879 million from $USD439 million.
The only moral way to break the rigid finance laws is, to reform them. And as it appears, the South Korean government is leaving no stone unturned in doing the same.
The hint comes from Yim Jong-yong, the Chairman of South Korea’s Financial Services Commission (FSC), who recently presented a promising “FinTech development roadmap”. The message read that the commission has removed irrational regulations, and is now focusing to revamp current systems to make room for FinTech technologies.
Yim further disclosed FSC’s plans to raise policy loan support to $USD879 million, from $USD439 million. The double top-up is to be the backbone of South Korea’s plan to develop a Bitcoin-like — and blockchain-based — finance infrastructure in the coming years . The joint research and testing for the implementation of the said plan has already started.
What’s in there for Bitcoin?
South Korea has maintained a balanced stand when it comes to adopting Bitcoin technology. While the regulators have no specific laws yet for digital currency startups, they have never attempted to hamper their growth. Even in the recent statements by Yim, Bitcoin appears to be more like a technology in dire need of a definition.
But while the South Korean authorities spend time in creating/finding a legal definition for Bitcoin and respond to prevailing issues involving taxation, AML and security, they have ensured the startups remain unaffected from legal hassles, with the help of one “financial regulation test bed” system.
The aforementioned system, as evidenced by a South Korean media house, allows new FinTech startups to test their systems without needing a license. This means that the Bitcoin companies can at least expect to go ahead with initial testing phases, without regulatory burdens. The system further ensures a revamped Know-Your-Customer procedure that would help Bitcoin exchanges.
FSC confirmed that they will be coming out with a full-fledged Bitcoin regulation by the first quarter of 2017.
Cover Image via Hina Dave | Story Tip: Hani
56
PUBLISHED BY
Gola Yashu
India-based IT professional Yashu Gola found Bitcoin in 2012, when he was trying to send money to one of his friends in the US. As he quotes, it was “love-at-first-sight” with the mystical work of digital currencies. He left his online advertising job to work as a full-time Bitcoin writer for forex news website ForexMinute.com. Apart from covering the minute-to-minute Bitcoin events, Yashu is also an active Bitcoin trader and analyst.When not working, he is found reading and writing movie scripts, poems and songs. He is also a passionate movie buff View all posts by Gola Yashu
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.