http://www.coindesk.com/nasdaq-patent-application-blockchain-backup/
Nasdaq Wants to Patent Blockchain Backups for Exchanges - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$729
$734
$739
USD -0.01%
$738.21
CNY 0.15%
¥5,192.29
EUR €696.79
GBP £591.41
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
COMPANIES  •  NEWS  •  TECHNOLOGY
Nasdaq Wants to Patent Blockchain Backups for Exchanges
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 7, 2016 at 01:43 GMT
NEWS
535
330
1
Nasdaq is looking to patent a method by which a blockchain could be used to secure records of exchange transactions.
On 6th October, the US Patent and Trademark Office (USTPO) released an application for "systems and methods of blockchain transaction recordation", originally submitted by Nasdaq on 31st March. It is attributed to Tom Fay, Nasdaq’s senior vice president of enterprise architecture, and Dominick Paniscotti, associate vice president for enterprise architecture.
Essentially, the application details an exchange system comprising digital wallets, an order book and matching engine, with a "closed blockchain" utilized as a record of transactions that is updated in real-time.
As the application details:
“A match is identified between data transaction requests and hashes associated with the digital wallets associated with the respective data transaction requests are generated. The counterparties receive the hashes of the other party along with information on the match and each party causes blockchain transactions to be added to the blockchain of the blockchain computing system.”
From there, the exchange checks the contents of the blockchain, looking for the data associated with those digital wallets. An additional backup of that information is also kept in a separate database.
While new, it's perhaps unsurprising that Nasdaq would move to file applications related to the technology. Last year, the exchange operator unveiled Linq, a blockchain project focused on private markets, and in May, it launched new blockchain services for its global client base.
The application's contents reveal that the company is largely looking to apply claims to the method of using a blockchain in an exchange environment, rather than the system itself. USTPO records show that Nasdaq originally sought a number of claims related to the tech, but that these were cancelled after the application was first filed in March.
The full application can be found here.
Image via Shutterstock
NasdaqPatents
535
330
1
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
The FBI is Investigating a $1.3 Million Bitcoin Theft
NEXT ARTICLE
What's Left Before SegWit Goes Live
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
OPINION
Nov 15, 2016 at 12:01 | Ira Schaefer & Ted Mlynar
Is a Blockchain Patent Still Possible?
How easy would it be to patent a blockchain invention in the face of complex and arcane legal processes?
NEWS
Oct 19, 2016 at 13:16 | Sid Kalla
Nasdaq Sees Low Hanging Fruit in Blockchain Post-Trade
Stock exchange giant Nasdaq discussed its vision for blockchain post-trade at an event in the UK last week.
NEWS
Oct 11, 2016 at 13:01 | Michael del Castillo
Digital Asset Latest to File Blockchain Patent Application
Digital Asset Holdings' patent application reveals new details about how its blockchain product will work.
FEATURE
Sep 24, 2016 at 13:40 | Bailey Reutzel
The Looming War for Blockchain Patents
There’s a patent land grab developing that could potentially make doing business more challenging for blockchain startups.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.