http://www.techradar.com/reviews/ledger-hw1
Ledger HW.1 review | TechRadar
IT INSIGHTS FOR BUSINESS
Search
RSS
News Reviews Insights
TechRadar
Next Up
Reviews Ledger HW.1 review
Ledger HW.1 review
By Gareth Halfacree 16 days agoPeripherals 
An affordable and highly portable ‘hardware wallet’ for your Bitcoins
Introduction and security
Verdict
JUMP TO SECTION:
BEST PRICE
COMMENTS
OUR VERDICT
A cheap way of protecting your Bitcoins without the inconvenience of paper wallets.
FOR
Affordable
Cross-platform
High security
Nicely portable
AGAINST
Tied, at present, to Google Chrome
Little support for altcoins
Glitchy mobile app
Bitcoin is big business. Despite its use in high-profile criminal endeavours like the infamous Silk Road, popularity of the cryptocurrency – developed by pseudonymous engineer Satoshi Nakamoto and driven by armies of ‘miners’ devoting computing resources to verifying transactions – is on the rise. Entire markets, from payment processing to the sale of mining hardware, have been born on its back, and it’s now entirely common to see mainstream companies accepting Bitcoin as a payment method.
It’s hard to ignore the negative headlines, though – the stories of online Bitcoin exchanges losing millions of pounds in funds to malicious attacks, untrustworthy staff, or simple incompetence.
See today's best Black Friday deals
For businesses accepting Bitcoin directly, rather than through a payment processor which automatically exchanges the cryptocurrency for fiat currency, it’s an undeniable risk, which only increases for those holding larger quantities of Bitcoin in an effort to benefit from its rapidly increasing value.
Enter the Ledger HW.1.
Hard security 
The Ledger HW.1 is one of a new breed of Bitcoin-specific security devices dubbed ‘hardware wallets’. Where traditionally a Bitcoin wallet takes the form of a file on a computer protected with a passphrase, the Ledger HW.1 stores the private key associated with the wallet on a tiny USB dongle similar to those used for FIDO U2F two-factor authentication.
The HW.1’s security comes from more than physical abstraction, however: the dongle also contains a security co-processor which handles the job of actually signing transactions, meaning that the wallet’s private key is never exposed to the host operating system.
This, its creators claim, means that – in theory at least – you could carry out Bitcoin transactions on a computer liberally infested with malware, including keyloggers and screen-grabbers, and still be entirely protected from any harm.
The HW.1 costs €18 (around £16, $20) for a single dongle, or you can purchase bundles and get them cheaper with bulk discounts.
You can purchase the Ledger HW.1 here
Simple setup 
The HW.1 packaging includes the dongle itself, which you punch out of a credit card-sized block of plastic and fold in half with a click, and a printed plastic security card which acts as a second authentication factor. If you get sick of looking up letters and numbers on the card for each transaction, this can be replaced with a smartphone app. However, sadly, in testing we found the app, which should pop up a notification when authorisation is required, was too unreliable for daily use.
The desktop software itself is provided as a Chrome app running within Google’s browser and supporting any operating system on which Chrome can be installed. The on-boarding process is quick and easy, asking the user to pick a four-digit PIN and to write down a series of ‘recovery words’ on a bundled informational sheet.
These words allow the wallet to be regenerated onto a replacement HW.1 should you lose or damage your original, and represent the device’s weakest link. When you’ve recorded the words, the card should be sealed away in a safe and treated with the same care you would furnish upon a stack of banknotes to the value of your Bitcoin hoard.
Once set up, the software works like a standard online Bitcoin wallet – you can receive Bitcoins to a constantly-cycling address, send Bitcoins, and view the details of any transactions you have made. All of these features only operate with the HW.1 inserted into a USB port, and sending Bitcoins requires the security card or smartphone app as a secondary level of authentication.
Enterprise users can use multiple HW.1’s to enable ‘multisig’ authentication on a wallet for improved multi-user security, requiring several keys to authorise each payment, while a final trick up the HW.1’s sleeve is the ability to act as a two-factor authentication (2FA) dongle via the admittedly uncommon blockchain-powered BitID system.
1
2
NEXT PAGE
Verdict
  by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
You May Like
How Driverless Cars Pose Threat To Growth Of Cycling In Cities
Financial Times
Wow! Insane Tracking Device - Never Lose Anything Again!
TrackR Bravo
These Countries Are Unsafe for Travelers
HealthGrove — By Graphiq
People Live Longest in These Countries
FindTheData — By Graphiq
Employers Say Offering Income Protection Can Have Benefits
Financial Times
The Ultimate Cheap Flights Finder is Here!
Save70.com
'Dog Whisperer' Faces Cruelty Probe
Reuters TV
7 tricks to learn a language in 7 days
Babbel
Load Comments
GET YOUR FREE MAGAZINE
NET: The Money Issue worth £5.99
Join 13,000 TechRadar Pro subscribers!
Sign up for a new, free business service from TechRadar Pro to help you in your job delivering high value, original content direct to your inbox
GET MY FREE MAGAZINE
No spam, we promise. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details without your permission.
TechRadar is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Advertise with us
© Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury, Bath BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885.