http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/trading/bitcoin-price-back-above-650-for-first-time-since-bitfinex-hack/
Bitcoin Price Back Above $650 for First Time since Bitfinex Hack | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyTradingBitcoin Price Back Above $650 for First Time since Bitfinex Hack
Bitcoin Price Back Above $650 for First Time since Bitfinex Hack
Chinese speculators and investors are returning to Bitcoin (BTC) following devaluation of yuan (RMB).
Avi Mizrahi | Trading (CryptoCurrency) | Sunday, 23/10/2016|08:57 GMT
1
0
Photo: Bloomberg
The BTC/USD exchange rate is now back again comfortably above the $650 per Bitcoin benchmark level for the first time in three months. The most plausible reason for the move, according to cryptocurrency community forums, is that Chinese speculators and investors are returning to Bitcoin following the recent yuan devaluation.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
One event that might have triggered the BTC price jump (of about 4% in one day) is a huge conference of bitcoin miners (considered to be the biggest ever) on Saturday in the capital of China’s Sichuan province – the mega city of Chengdu. This General Assembly of Chinese miners was hosted by Bitmain, the world’s largest bitcoin mining hardware producer.
The excitement around this event apparently helped Bitcoin recover to price levels not seen since July and the Bitfinex Hack crash. When the exchange revealed then that it suffered a major loss due to a “data breach”, the price dropped to as low as $480 overnight before recovering some of the losses. Now it seems that cryptocurrency traders are willing to forget about the $65 million that were stolen from Bitfinex or have otherwise regained trust in their own security arrangements.
Explaining how he sees the situation, Charles Hayter, the CEO of CryptoCompare.com, says: “The Bitcoin price surge was led by optimistic Chinese traders on the back of support for Bitcoin unlimited and a fix to the Bitcoin scaling debate. Renminbi pairs led, leaving the USD markets lagging at over a $20 discount.”
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: Bitcoin Price
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
eric sabourin
I’ve read an article in Coindesk written by Akin Fernadez , Why Central Bank Will Fail at Digital Currency (june 13, 2016). Mr Fernandez claims many things that I can’t prove right or wrong. He says blockchain and bitcoin can’t be separated from each other, that bitcoin was created to destroy the Federal Reserve, that banks representants have no understanding of computors and that they’re computor illiterates, just as I am. Are those blockchain developers from all over the world completely out of the track? Help me, OB1, you’re my only hope although I’m no princess.
October 23, 2016 at 9:41 pm 0 0
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 7 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 9 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 9 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 9 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
Jason Granger and Charlie Shrem Set to Launch Private Equity Investment Fund
Bitcoin Market Cap Above $12 Billion as Price Climbs Back to $750
Bitcoin Price Jumps Over $735 As Donald Trump Wins US Presidency
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions