https://ibsintelligence.com/ibs-journal/ibs-news/quantum-computing-could-spell-doom-for-bitcoin/
Quantum computing could spell doom for Bitcoin - IBS Intelligence
   IBS Newsletter
Register/Log In
Contact Us
Your Cart - £0.00
Menu
17
OCT 2016
Quantum computing could spell doom for Bitcoin
Previous | Next
 Bitcoin has faced numerous adversaries on its rise to global fame (or infamy). Sites dedicated to tracking its rise and fall have declared it dead no less than 100 times. Yet now a new challenger has entered the ring to face off against it in a battle to the death: quantum computing. Anderson Cheng, Co-Founder of Post-Quantum, a UK-based cybersecurity firm, believes that Bitcoin will be finished the day the first quantum computer arrives.
The appearance of ultra-powerful machines capable of exploding the amount of processing power a company can wield would mean the private keys – which ensure the security of the Bitcoin blockchain – can be decrypted in a minute or two. Should someone be inclined, quantum computing evangelists believe, they could gain access to every private key, and thus all Bitcoins in circulation, within a matter of days.
“If you have a quantum computer then you’re able to just basically calculate the private key from the public key,” Martin Tomlinson, a Professor in the Security, Communications and Networking Research Centre at Plymouth University, tells Newsweek. “It would take just a minute or two. So by learning all the private keys using a quantum computer, you’d have access to all the bitcoin that’s available.”
New quantum cryptography would been to be created to protect the Bitcoin system from the new innovation. The technology already exists yet there are currently no ways to incorporate it into the Bitcoin blockchain. Tomlinson, playing Cassandra, believes that there is no way to protect the system in reality.
“It will be doomed,” Tomlinson says. “Any disruption needs the consensus of the bitcoin community and that can’t even be realized when it comes to the transaction limit problem . That’s a relatively simple problem compared to redoing the entire digital signature method. “It’s probably impossible, so bitcoin has had it.”
By Alex Hamilton
Follow Alex at @ADHamilton91
Related
Trump presidency could be good for Bitcoin
Central Bank of Kenya not a fan of Bitcoin
Mastercard President not too fond of Bitcoin
Bitcoin challenger Zcash claims stricter anonymity
Bitso Bitcoin startup completes $2.5m funding round
Powered by
Related Reports
Core Banking Systems Case Studies
£2,000.00
ADD TO CART
Core Banking Systems Market Dynamics Report 2016
£2,000.00
ADD TO CART
IBS Journal

£545.00
SELECT OPTIONS
Universal Banking Systems Report
£1,500.00
ADD TO CART


Advertise with us
Weekly Round-up – 28th October
Market News
About IBS
IBS Journal
Reports
Consulting
Buy
Events
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Terms & Conditions
Why buy from us
© IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC.
Developed by: Pi Techniques