http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/29/bitcoin-price-increase-pushes-market-cap-us11-3bn/
Bitcoin Price Increase Pushes Market Cap Above US$11.3bn
25-11-2016
07:13 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Global
Bitcoin Price Increase Pushes Market Cap Above US$11.3bn
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News



While there is still a lot of disdain surrounding Bitcoin and cryptocurrency, there is also a growing interest.
People who have been following the Bitcoin price will have noticed how the value increased significantly. With one Bitcoin being worth US$712 right now, things are looking a lot better compared to the period in 2015 The market cap has also surpassed the US$11.3bn mark once again, indicating a very bullish Bitcoin trend.
It is always anybody’s guess as to why the Bitcoin price goes up or down. Unlike other currencies and commodities, there is no group controlling Bitcoin by any means. However, due to low liquidity, any significant investor could easily influence the price with very little money. Plus, a free market model can’t be predicted by any means, even though a technical analysis can reveal the bigger picture.
Bitcoin Valuation And Market Cap Increases
While there is still a lot of disdain surrounding Bitcoin and cryptocurrency, there is also a growing interest. The year 2016 has been quite positive for cryptocurrency so far. Japan became the world’s first country to officially legalize Bitcoin as a currency. Other countries will have to follow their lead, either in a positive or negative manner.
At the same time, the number of use cases for Bitcoin keeps on growing. It is possible to virtually buy anything with cryptocurrency, even though intermediary steps will sometimes be required. Bitcoin is also becoming more accessible than ever before, which will certainly help mainstream adoption.
The current rise in Bitcoin market cap is quite spectacular as well. With a valuation of just over US$11.3bn so far, things are looking quite positive. However, this is still a very small valuation compared to other major assets and commodities. It is not unlikely Bitcoin’s market cap will reach US$25bn in the future, but that will not happen overnight.
Another noteworthy observation is how nearly 16 million Bitcoins have been mined to date. Albeit it will take over a hundred more years to fully mine all 21 million, the time seems now for an exponential BTC price increase. To achieve that goal, it will take a lot more than US$129m in 24-hour trading volume, though.
All things considered, Bitcoin enthusiasts have plenty of reasons to be happy. Even the recent launch of ZCash is not suppressing the BTC price which is a very positive sign. Other altcoins are feeling the heat, though, as nearly every alternative cryptocurrency has seen a significant decline in value over the past 24 hours.
Source: CoinMarketCap
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.