http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/23/will-hillary-president-good-bitcoin/
Will Hillary as the President Be Good for Bitcoin? - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
09:24 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Will Hillary as the President Be Good for Bitcoin?
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News
114



Emails published by WikiLeaks raises concerns about the future of Bitcoin under the presidency of Hillary Clinton. Read more...
With just a few weeks to go for the US presidential election, all eyes are on the presidential candidates — Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. While the whole world is concerned about the potential outcome of the elections and what the new president may mean to the overtly complicated global geopolitical situation, the cryptocurrency community has its own set of concerns.
There has been plenty of mudslinging between the candidates during the presidential debates. The recent hacking incident and leak of DNC emails by WikiLeaks has revealed Hillary Clinton’s stand on Bitcoin and other virtual currencies. One of the emails in the cache of private emails leaked by the whistleblower website has revealed that Hillary Clinton and members of her presidential campaign are well aware of the benefits of Bitcoin and virtual currencies but still reluctant to support its use.
The email reveals that the decentralized nature of Bitcoin and the lack of control over the digital currency to be the main reasons for the Hillary’s camp’s tough stance. The leaked emails were part of an exchange between John Podesta and Stan Stalnaker regarding the use of digital currency for fundraising
An online cryptocurrency news site has published an excerpt from the email where John Podesta had written,
“I don’t send all the crazy ideas I hear about at fundraisers your way, but this seems interesting and legit. Essentially digital currency with a green angle as opposed to bitcoin’s libertarian Ayn Rand schtick. Would you get some members of your team to meet with Stan when he’s in NYC later this month to see if it’s worth a real conversation?”
In that particular email, John makes his stance clear about Bitcoin, while showing interest in an alternative digital currency, Ven. Ven is a digital currency by Hub Culture and its value is said to be derived from a mix of different currencies commodities and carbon futures pricing.
As the adoption of Bitcoin continues to increase across the world, the stance of Hillary Clinton’s campaign gives rise to concerns about the virtual currency ecosystem in the United States in case she gets elected as the president.
Ref: WikiLeaks | Image: ActivistPost
  114
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×