http://www.silicon.co.uk/e-enterprise/financial-market/switzerland-red-tape-fintech-199991
Switzerland To Ease Red Tape For Fintech Startups
By continuing browsing the site, you accept the use of cookies for audience measurement and ad targeting. Know more
close
Close
Facebook
Linkedin
Twitter
Follow us
Newsletters
Connect
Silicon UK
by
techweekeurope.co.uk
Menu
Cloud
Security
Big Data
IoT
Networks
Mobility
Quizzes
Events
Whitepapers
more …
EnterpriseFinancial MarketsFund raising
Switzerland To Ease Red Tape For Fintech Startups
Tom Jowitt , November 2, 2016, 3:48 pm
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Linkedin
Subscribe to our newsletter
Write a comment
Swiss government proposes new rules to help financial technology startups enter the market
The Swiss government is proposing new rules to help encourage the survival and growth of financial technology (fintech) start-ups.
The Federal Council believes that by easing the regulatory framework for providers of financial technologies, it will help encourage a more competitive and dynamic Swiss financial centre.
Swiss Proposals
The wish to reduce the red tape for fintech firms and increase legal certainty for the sector overall, has come as the Federal Department of Finance (FDF) prepares a consultation.The draft, work on which will begin early next year, could see the introduction of new banking laws in Switzerland.
The Swiss are proposing three possible changes.
The first involves setting a deadline of 60 days for the holding of money in settlement accounts, mainly to help startups looking to raise funds through crowdfunding. At the moment donors can withdraw their cash after seven days. Apparently this extension to 60 days would not just be restricted to fintech companies.
Secondly the Swiss want to establish a sandbox or innovation area, where a startup could accept public funds up to a total value of 1m CHF (£838,000) to setup and test new ideas under controlled conditions. Activities do not have to be authorised and are not monitored by financial authorities.
And thirdly the Swiss want to create a new fintech banking licence that is less onerous than a traditional banking licence. This would apply to startups offering deposit services and which do not lend money.
“The creation of a fintech licence is also pioneering by international standards,” said the Federal Council.
Changing World
The Swiss proposals are a sign of the changes sweeping through the financial services industry, driven by the emergence of fintech players.
Earlier this year for example citizens and businesses in the city of Zug, capital of the eponymous canton in central Switzerland, took part in a trial that sees them able to pay for public services up to the value of 200 Swiss Francs (£143) in Bitcoin.
That development was  part of a trial to see how the use digital currencies can promote the region’s Fintech sector.
Meanwhile in the UK the Bank of England seems to have adopted a more conservative approach compared to the Swiss. It warned last year that Bitcoin could pose a threat to financial stability in the UK should it see widespread adoption.
The British government on the other hand is looking into how blockchain technology could be used to help it manage and keep track of the distribution of public money, such as grants and student loans.
Meanwhile IBM research recently predicted that blockchain would be used by majority of financial institutions within three years.
What do you know about Bitcoin? Try our quiz!
Advertising
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Linkedin
No Comments
Register
to receive TechWeekEurope newsletters
Sign up
Related themes
Banking
banking technology
Bitcoin
blockchain
Crowdfunding
fintech
Government IT
laws
switzerland
Advertising
Related
  Whitepaper by Intel
Big Data in the Cloud: Converging Technologies
  Whitepaper by Neo Technology
Neo4j Digital Transformation in a Connected World
  Article by techweekeurope.co.uk
Switzerland To Ease Red Tape For Fintech Startups
  Article by techweekeurope.co.uk
Accenture Touts Need For Blockchain Editing Tool
  Article by channelbiz.co.uk
Extreme Networks completes Zebra WLAN unit acquisition
  Article by channelbiz.co.uk
Google discloses Windows bug as Microsoft objects
Advertising
STAY CONNECTED
Follow us
Newsletter
Connect
Services
IT Jobs
Your Account
4G Zone – Test your coverage
Test Your Bandwidth
What is My IP address?
Sites
White Papers
Downloads
ChannelBiz
Legal notices
Sales and Advertising
Terms and Conditions
Stay in touch
About Us – Silicon UK
Contact us
NETMEDIAEUROPE
Brazil
Germany
France
Italy
Portugal
Spain
United Kingdom
WorldWide
NetMediaEurope © Copyright 2016 All rights reserved. Part of NetMediaEurope. About NetMediaEurope