http://sports.yahoo.com/news/ufominers-special-offer-bitcoin-litecoin-111500428.html
UFOMiners has a special offer for Bitcoin and Litecoin Mining hardware
Home
MailFlickrTumblrNewsSportsFinanceCelebrityAnswersGroupsMobile
Yahoo
Search
Search
Sign in
Sports Home
Fantasy
NFL
NCAAF
MLB
NBA
THE VERTICAL
MMA
NHL
Soccer
Coaching News
Texas expected to fire Charlie Strong on Saturday, per Yahoo sources
UFOMiners has a special offer for Bitcoin and Litecoin Mining hardware
AccesswireNovember 11, 2016
LAS VEGAS, NV / ACCESSWIRE / November 11, 2016 / UFOMiners LLC ( www.UFOMiners.com ) have launched a special offer on their powerful Bitcoin and Litecoin miners which will enable customers to buy four miners for the price of three, saving an impressive $4800 for Bitcoin Miners and 4900 for Litecoin Miners.
The new offer allows customers to mix and match units according to their preference in Bitcoins or Litecoins. For example, if a customer would like two Bitcoin miners and one Litecoin miner, they will still qualify for the special offer and will be able to choose either a Bitcoin or Litecoin miner as their fourth free unit. No matter what assortment of miners they prefer, they will still qualify for the offer when they purchase three units at one time. With each device retailing at $4800-4900 each, this promotional deal offers fantastic savings to UFOMiners clients.
UFOMiners LLC. was founded two years ago with the aim to provide high-tech and highly profitable cryptocurrency mining solutions. All components of their Bitcoin and Litecoin miners are totally unique and developed independently with no third party technologies used. By working in this way, UFOMiners LLC. remains dedicated to developing new, innovative technologies which can keep the cost of devices low while maintaining incredibly high levels of performance.
Speaking about the latest special offer, a spokesperson for UFOMiners explained that it is this ethos for low cost and high performance which has allowed them to launch such a consumer-friendly promotion. "We're a rapidly-growing team of specialists who are extremely passionate about what we do. We want to make cryptocurrency mining available to a wide range of customers, and by constantly developing alternative technologies which increase performance without increasing costs, we've been able to offer this buy-three-get-one-free deal that will dramatically increase profitability for our clients."
Although UFOMiners Bitcoin and Litecoin miners are more affordable than many other competing units on the market, the quality of the devices is not compromised in any way. Every single miner must pass a two-stage test procedure; the first is performed at the end of the manufacturing process and the second just before the device is shipped to ensure that every single unit reaches the customer in perfect working condition. Furthermore, the Bitcoin miner comes with a five-year warranty,same as the Litecoin Miner.
UFOMiners LLC are also offering free international delivery on all devices purchased, which means even more savings for their clients. Since the devices are relatively large and heavy units, they tend to rack up significant shipping charges. By covering the costs themselves, UFOMiners are saving customers hundreds of dollars more in shipping fees.
Although a relatively new company and having , UFOMiners looks set to make a big impact on the industry by offering miners at such affordable prices. With such promising profitability from their units, the company expects to entice clients who are brand new to Bitcoin and Litecoin mining and eager to invest in these popular digital currencies.
To learn more about UFOMiners and their devices, or to take advantage of their special offer and buy four units for the price of three, visit www.UFOMiners.com.
Read More