https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/bitcoin-regulation-swiss-governments-fintech-friendly-agenda/
Bitcoin Regulation is on Swiss Government’s Fintech-Friendly Agenda - CryptoCoinsNews
Explore
Menu

CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin RegulationFinTech NewsNews
Bitcoin Regulation is on Swiss Government’s Fintech-Friendly Agenda
Samburaj Das on 02/11/2016

244
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
S
witzerland’s Federal Council has called for reducing the barriers seen by Fintech firms to enter the country which could see broader implications on the country’s regulatory stance on virtual currencies like bitcoin.
In a meeting today, the Swiss Federal Council instructed the Federal Department of Finance (FDF) to prepare a consultation draft to relax the regulatory framework required for Fintech companies to enter and invest resources in the country.
The Federal Council, a seven-member executive council – essentially the country’s cabinet – outlined its objectives geared to make Switzerland welcome the likes of bitcoin- and blockchain-startups as a part of its wider drive to embrace the Fintech industry, more than it already is.
  An excerpt from the public release covering today’s meeting added:
[T]he FDF should conduct additional clarifications in cooperation with the interested authorities on reducing further barriers to market entry for fintech firms, also those outside financial market law (e.g. legal treatment of virtual currencies and assets).
  A Fintech License, Among Other Objectives
Under the objectives, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) will flex its authority as the country’s financial regulator.
The highlights of the three-pronged strategy include:
Setting a 2-month deadline for holding money in settlement accounts which are commonly used by providers of crowdfunding services.
Creating a “sandbox”, described as ‘an innovation area’ wherein a Fintech firm can accept public funds of up to CHF 1 million (approx. $1.2 million USD) without being monitored by FINMA.
A new “Fintech licence” will be granted by FINMA.
Speaking at a news conference in Bern, Finance Minister Ueli Maurer added that the draft legislation by the FDF could be sent to parliament by mid-2017, following a public consultation.
In quotes reported by Reuters, Maurer added:
We assume that with the steps we have prepared and the commitment we have to overall financial services industry, we can provide a solution that puts us among the top (countries) in the world that regulate this.
  Today’s revelation of a Fintech-friendly stance by the Swiss Government comes within a week of the country’s national railways operator announcing that it would enable customers to buy bitcoin from over a thousand ticketing kiosks, as a part of an experiment over the next two years. Cryptocurrency enthusiasts will also remember Zug, a sleepy lakeside town in Switzerland to accept bitcoin as payment for municipal services – also a part of an experiment with the cryptocurrency.
Images from Shutterstock.
244
SHARES
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Reddit
Weibo
Posted in: Bitcoin Regulation, FinTech News, News Tagged in: switzerland

Recent Posts
China Losing Control of Yuan Depreciation ahead of Trump Presidency
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Advertisement
NextZcash: A Cryptocurrency More Secure and Anonymous Than Bitcoin?02/11/2016
PreviousIndian Bank ICICI Constantly Looking at Blockchain, says CEO03/11/2016
Advertisement
Recent Comments
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.