http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/14/rbtc-moderator-steps-bitcoin-community-remains-divided-ever/
/r/BTC Moderator Steps Down As Bitcoin Community Remains More Divided Than Ever
25-11-2016
06:02 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
/r/BTC Moderator Steps Down As Bitcoin Community Remains More Divided Than Ever
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News, Opinion
61



All of this goes to show that having multiple Bitcoin subreddits is a great way to share ideas, but it also creates a bigger community divide.
The Bitcoin community has been somewhat divided for quite some time now. On the one hand, there are those who favor Bitcoin Core and will support the developers no matter what. But there is also a growing number of community members who want to see a different developmental approach. Separate subreddits have been created for these types of discussions, but in the end, they are not so different after all. /r/BTC Is an excellent example of good intentions that turn sour eventually. 
When the /r/BTC subreddit was created, the objective was rather simple. Exchanging ideas, contributing thoughts and voicing opinions were three main “ideas” being supported. There is nothing wrong with a clash of views, as that usually leads to innovation and new ideas. But it looks like things have turned out a bit differently than most people anticipated.
/r/BTC Is Not The Fun Place People Think It Is
SouperNerd, one of the /r/BTC moderators, has officially stepped down a few hours ago. A lot of people flocked to this new subreddit after getting fed up of /r/Bitcoin. Granted, Theymos and his group of moderators are running a very tight ship over there. So tight, it even resembles censorship every time a potentially controversial discussion is started.
But over in /r/BTC, things are not all that different. There have always been trolls on the Internet, and the Bitcoin community has to deal with a fair few of them. Unfortunately, they create a very toxic environment where answering questions is far less of a priority. Instead, they will continue to rephrase their own thoughts and opinions, which do not contribute to the overall discussion in most cases.
For SouperNerd, the experience of moderating /r/BTC has not been overly pleasant. The fate of Bitcoin hangs in the balance, and a divided community is not helping matters move along. Finding common ground would be the perfect outcome, although that will be much harder to achieve.  In any case, a Bitcoin fork seems to be inevitable at this point, although that situation may come to change at any time.
All of this goes to show that having multiple Bitcoin subreddits is an excellent way to share ideas, but it also creates a bigger community divide. For the moderators of these public forums, the job is far from easy. Weeding out the bad apples is tough, and can get frustrating pretty quickly. Bitcoin finds itself in a perilous situation, even though now is the perfect time to collaborate in a constructive manner.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
62
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×