http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/industries/86183948/Bitcoins-offer-a-savings-choice
Bitcoins offer a savings choice | Stuff.co.nz
National
World
Business
Tech
Sport
Entertainment
Life & Style
Travel
Motoring
business
Search
Industries
Small Business
Money
Farming
World
Better Business
Nurture Change 2016
Opinion & Analysis
Tools
BREAKING NEWS
A number of people are dead after a boat flipped in Kaipara Harbour ... Read more
Bitcoins offer a savings choice
Last updated 05:00, November 13 2016
Supplied
Bitcoin valued are edging towards $1,000 each.
Kiwi bitcoin firm MyBitcoinSaver has been invited to apply to one of the world's top business accelerators - Techstars.
The 18-month-old start-up, formed out of the business software company Webscope, has ambitions to be a global financial technology force by giving people the chance to save into the cryptocurrency rather than into a KiwiSaver or regular bank account.
Now, Auckland-based founders Sam Blackmore, Katie Graham and Tim Clark are hoping to be accepted into the special Tel Aviv incubator which has partnered with the UK's Barclays Bank to offer young companies access to international mentors and investors. Only ten companies globally are invited into the incubator out of 300 applications.
Supplied
Sam Blackmore (left) and Katie Graham, co-founders of MyBitcoinSaver.co.nz, a Bitcoin savings company based in Auckland.
Sam Blackmore said Bitcoin was attractive because it was both a commodity and a currency. He said investors had saved $100,000 into Bitcoin since the company started 18 months ago. But that number had already increased to more than $200,000 because of rising Bitcoin values.
READ MORE: A beginner's guide to bitcoin: What you need to know
"Savers can invest weekly, fortnightly or monthly," said Blackmore. "We adopt a dollar cost averaging approach. Savers don't benefit as much as if they had invested a lump sum, but they also spread their risk."
Bitcoins rose in value this week in the wake of the shock US election result as investors raced into assets considered to be safe havens for their money outside of stock and shares.
The digital currency jumped to a high of $738 ($1023) in America on Tuesday night and was trading at around $710 ($985) by the end of the week.
There are currently 21 million Bitcoins in circulation, with release of them controlled by a mathematical algorithm operated from the US.
 "It fits the interconnected digital lifestyle," said Blackmore. Savers can set up a direct debit to save into the currency each month, and the firm then buys Bitcoins on the currency's special exchange.
Ad Feedback
"Bitcoins once could be bought for $10 but now they are worth around $1000 each. The beauty of it is that it is divisible to eight decimal places and this allows savers to buy them with regular deposits."
Bitcoin trading means that around 20 per cent of investment will be used up by transfer, exchange and trading fees.
Blackmore added: "People are getting low interest rates on their savings and our business is offering them a chance to diversify. The beauty is that Bitcoin is geo-politically independent. Chinese investors are buying lots of bitcoins for example, because the Yuan is being devalued."
To supporters of Bitcoin, the exchange rises during political uncertainty are validation that the currency is being taken seriously as an asset and a haven at times of market volatility.
The national railway of Switzerland began selling bitcoins from its ticket machines on Friday and the currency has been made exempt from value added tax (VAT)  Luzius Meisser, President of Bitcoin Association Switzerland said: "Bitcoin is a currency, and thus should also be treated like a currency."
Blackmore said MyBitcoinSaver would soon have a financial partner in place to help grow its business into making payments and expansion in the UK. 
           - Sunday Star Times
Save|Saved Stories
Next Industries story:
Funding and competition putting pressure on small pharmacies
Business Homepage
promoted stories
Ranked: The Best Western Movies Ever
PrettyFamous
25 Names Nobody Wants to Name Their Kid Anymore
MooseRoots | By Graphiq
Will The Stock Market Crash Again Soon?
Men's Fitness
Diane Nyad Raises Funds for Sandy Victims
Muscle & Fitness
Recommended by
promoted stories
Sharing the Gift of Memories Year Round
The Wirecutter
Six useful Android apps you probably haven’t heard of
Verizon News
TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2016- Mokloud
GROCO CPAs & Advisors
The Cost of a Pack of Cigarettes Since 1940
Consumer Price Index (CPI) - Inflation Calculator and Rates
Recommended by
business headlines
Petrol pain: The Caltex squeeze
Kelvin Grove is hot property
Real costs of freezer-buying
Kids want this? Don't muck around
Doctor fees are sick
Treasury review 'dense waffle'
Bonus Bond prizes dwindle
Be frugal, don't be a cheapskate
Liquidator's fury at puny fines
$55,000 for the watch? Sure
Quake puts some deals on ice
Quake Xmas shopping grinch
Beer millions just froth
Casino to build $85m hotel
Private public partnerships in tourism
Ad Feedback
most popular
viewed
shared
commented
Central New Zealand shaken awake by magnitude 4.6 Cook Strait earthquake
Quakekoura: Al Nisbet's second once-in-a-lifetime disaster
Several dead after boat capsizes in Kaipara Harbour
Victoria University fraudster spent almost $500,000 on a house, car, retail and beauty
Kim Kardashian West's 'dirty' photoshoot for husband Kanye West
Elderly man injured after tussle with police at the tsunami cordon
Did Gemma Flynn Say Yes to the Dress?
Broadcaster Tony Veitch says he is 'desperately sad' over divorce of second wife
Texan Yoga instructor kills two burglars in Chile
Morning trivia quiz: November 26
Ad Feedback
National
World
Business
Technology
Sport
Entertainment
Life & Style
Travel
Motoring
Stuff.co.nz
About Us | Contact Us | View Mobile Site
Subscribe
Text | Follow us on Facebook and Twitter | Newspapers | Magazine subscriptions | RSS - Top Stories
Services
Stuff Fibre | Newspapers in Education | A-Z Directories | Online Advertising | Print Advertising| Careers
Classifieds
Death Notices | Celebrations | Trade Me | Jobs | Property | Motors | Accommodation | Personals | Newspaper Classifieds
Newspapers
Dominion Post | The Press | Waikato Times | Auckland Now | Sunday News | Sunday Star-Times
  Marlborough Express | Manawatu Standard | Nelson Mail | Southland Times | Taranaki Daily News | Timaru Herald
Other Sites
Essential Mums | Cuisine | NZ House & Garden | NZ Fishing News | NZ Life & Leisure | NZ Gardener | Fairfax Archives
Breaking news?
Send us your photos, videos and tip-offs:
Email
newstips@stuff.co.nz
Phone
0800 697 8833

© 2016 Fairfax New Zealand Limited
Privacy | Terms and Conditions