http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bitcoin-futures-and-options-exchange-deribit-announces-zero-fee-trading-300353787.html
Bitcoin Futures and Options Exchange ’Deribit’ Announces Zero-Fee Trading
Contact Us
Journalists
Blog
Log In
Sign Up
Send a Release
News
Solutions
Resources
Search
News in Focus
Business & Money
Science & Tech
Lifestyle & Health
Policy & Public Interest
People & Culture
Bitcoin Futures and Options Exchange 'Deribit' Announces Zero-Fee Trading
Deribit, the only trade platform that offers both plain vanilla options on Bitcoin and futures with margin has eliminated trading fees.
NEWS PROVIDED BY
Deribit
Oct 29, 2016, 15:06 ET
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
AMSTERDAM, Oct. 29, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Deribit, the only full-featured Bitcoin futures and options platform has announced the removal of all trading fees for the remainder of 2016.
Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20161029/434053
Bitcoin Futures and Options Exchange 'Deribit' Announces Zero-Fee Trading
"We want to introduce our platform to anyone interested in Bitcoin futures and options trading,"
Said Marius Jansen, CMO of Deribit. He added,
"So we decided to offer free trading until the end of the year,"
Few key features of Deribit trading platform includes;
Trading plain vanilla European style cash-settled options on the Deribit BTC index with margin.
Trading BTC futures that settle on the Deribit BTC index, with up to 20x leverage.
Allowance for placing volatility orders, where the Deribit price engine continuously updates the price of the order as to keep the implied volatility of the order fixed. With this feature, basic market making is already possible for any trader opening an account on the platform.
Real-time risk management with incremental auto-liquidation: If an account has a maintenance margin higher than its equity, the Deribit risk engine will liquidate its position in small steps, providing maximal protection for all parties involved. Liquidations are small and instantaneous, again ensuring fairness for everyone.
A 100BTC insurance fund to cover bankruptcies. Any bankruptcy is published in real time on the platform. Deribit aims to completely avoid socialized losses. The platform's risk management system is built in such a way that it is extremely difficult to go bankrupt even if one tries to do so.
Trading via REST, Websockets API or FIX bridge. High-performance API that can handle even hundreds of requests per second from a single account.
The removal of trading fees on Deribit for rest of the year now allows traders to make more than usual profits. Interested traders can register here.
About Deribit
Deribit is a Bitcoin-only derivatives exchange for vanilla options and futures trading. Deribit has been created as an answer to those in search for a professional fully dedicated (vanilla) Bitcoin options trading platform; a service that can create a fully liquid marketplace with the same standards as a normal derivatives market.
Learn more about Deribit at – https://www.deribit.com/
Register on Deribit at – https://www.deribit.com/login?#/register
Media Contact
Name: Marius Jansen
Designation: CMO
Email: support@deribit.com
Phone: +31208932760
Location: Netherlands
Deribit is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only. The information does not constitute investment advice or an offer to invest.
Related Links
Deribit
This content was issued through the press release distribution service at Newswire.com. For more info visit: http://www.newswire.com
SOURCE Deribit
Related Links
https://www.deribit.com

You just read:
Bitcoin Futures and Options Exchange 'Deribit' Announces Zero-Fee Trading
NEWS PROVIDED BY
Deribit
Oct 29, 2016, 15:06 ET
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
Contact
888-776-0942
from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
Chat Online with an Expert
Contact Us
Solutions
Cision Communication Cloud™
For Marketers
For Public Relations
For IR & Compliance
For Agency
For Small Business
All Products
About
About PR Newswire
About Cision
Become a Publishing Partner
Become a Channel Partner
Careers
  Global Sites
My Services
All News Releases
Online Member Center
ProfNet℠

Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Information Security Policy Statement
Site Map
RSS Feeds
Copyright © 2016 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Cision company.
News
News in Focus
Business & Money
Science & Tech
Lifestyle & Health
Policy & Public Interest
People & Culture