http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/15/fbi-gets-involved-us1-3m-bitfinex-hack-investigation/
The FBI Gets Involved In US$1.3m Bitfinex Hack Investigation
25-11-2016
11:15 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
The FBI Gets Involved In US$1.3m Bitfinex Hack Investigation
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
43



More importantly, the question becomes what this investigation means for Bitfinex as a company, and their “legal gray area” shenanigans.
It was only a matter of time until Bitfinex would get into legal trouble over their recent hack. One user in Massachusetts has filed a police report to recover his missing bitcoin funds. During the hack, nearly US$70m worth of Bitcoin were stolen, and no users were compensated. Instead, they all saw their balances punished even further to make up for the balance sheet losses.
The way Bitfinex handled the whole hacking event was not exactly professional, from a legal point of view. The company cut all user balances by a significant amount and issued outstanding IOU tokens instead. If only one person bothered to file a police report, the company would find itself in contested waters very shortly.
FBI Gets Involved In Bitfinex Hack Investigation
According to Cambridge police, the report has been filed on September 14th. However, the FBI has taken a particular interest in this case, and they have opened up negotiations with Bitfinex. While it’s nice to see the exchange comply with the investigation, it remains to be seen how things will unfold when all is said and done.
Ever since the hack took place, Bitfinex has mentioned how an investigation would be held. Unfortunately, they included very few details, which is understandable. Getting the FBI involved in this matter takes things to a whole new level, though. While we can only hope the user gets his money back, it remains to be seen how it will affect the company itself.
What is rather interesting is how the reports seem to indicate this user lost roughly US$1.3m worth of Bitcoin in the exchange’s wallets. Anyone who owns Bitcoin should never store that funds in a portfolio they cannot fully control. To make matter worse, his total holdings surpass the US$3m mark, all of which was controlled by Bitfinex.
Granted, the user was partially compensated through the issuance of BFX token. However, Bitfinex created these tokens out of sheer necessity, and they cannot be used for anything specific. Instead, users have to hold onto BFX and hope the company will pay them back fairly over the next few years. From a legal point of view, that decision will never hold up in court if someone decides to pursue charges.
The involvement of the FBI will hopefully shed some light on who is behind this Bitcoin heist. Then again, it is doubtful affected users would ever see their money back, even if the responsible party is apprehended. More importantly, the question becomes what this investigation means for Bitfinex as a company, and their “legal gray area” shenanigans.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
43
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×