http://www.bankingtech.com/642342/shinhan-bank-and-streami-to-launch-bitcoin-remittance-service/
Shinhan Bank and Streami to launch Bitcoin remittance service » Banking Technology
26 November, 2016
HOME
NEWS
SIBOS
MAGAZINES
AWARDS
RESOURCES
EVENTS
JOBS
MORE
Home » Format » News » Shinhan Bank and Streami to launch Bitcoin remittance service
Shinhan Bank and Streami to launch Bitcoin remittance service
14 November, 2016 Written by Tanya Andreasyan
Print Email
Shinhan Bank HQ, Seoul. Image source: Kaniwari, Wikimedia Commons
South Korea’s Shinhan Bank is launching a Bitcoin remittance service between Korea and China. The service will be available in December this year.
Hong Kong will act as an intermediary (as digital currency transactions are legally permitted there). Shinhan Bank will transfer value to a digital currently exchange in Hong Kong, which will convert it to bitcoin and further the transaction to a Chinese exchange, where the value will be converted to local currency.
This is a temporary solution as Bitcoin is not considered a legal tender in South Korea at present. The country’s authorities are looking to introduce the legislation for cryptocurrencies next year.
The platform is built by Shinhan Bank’s IT arm, Shinhan Data Systems, in partnership with local fintech start-up Streami, which specialises in blockchain remittance solutions. Shinhan Bank is also an investor in Streami – it participated in the start-up’s seed funding round in December 2015. Streami raised $2 million, of which around $425,000 was from Shinhan Bank.
Shinhan Financial Group is one of the largest financial services players in Korea. It has over 28 million customers, 13,400 employees and $260 billion in assets. The bank operates via 900+ domestic branches and outlets plus 140 branches across 19 countries worldwide.
Tanya Andreasyan
Follow Tanya Andreasyan @TanyaBankTech
Tags; Bitcoin, China, cryptocurrency, digital currency, Hong Kong, Remittances, Shinhan Bank, South Korea, Streami, Banking Tech, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Digital Banking, Innovation, News, Partnerships
del.icio.us Digg Facebook
Post a comment
Name
Email
Website
Threaded commenting powered by interconnect/it code.
RELATED CONTENT
Stellar offers sponsorship for fintech start-ups
Stellar Development Foundation is offering sponsorships for fintech start-ups, and those who educate developers or represent an NGO. Sponsorship is available in the forms of “lumens” – Stellar’s unit of digital currency, similar to a Bitcoin. The firm says its goal is to support new products and ideas, and for those enabling that goal via […]
Tags; crypto currency, digital currency, FinTech, Stellar Development Foundation, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Innovation, News, Start-ups
A boringly good guide to cryptocurrencies
Here is a boringly good guide to cryptocurrencies, courtesy of MBNA. It is not boring at all really!
Tags; Bitcoin, cryptocurrency, digital currency, FinTech, MBNA, Remitsy, Zerocash, Zerocoin, Banking Tech, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Digital Banking, Innovation, News
Payments start-up nanoPay gets $10m funding boost
Toronto-based payments start-up nanoPay has completed its $10 million Series A funding round. With this financing and the MintChip platform, which nanoPay recently acquired from The Royal Canadian Mint, it is developing new business partnerships to “expand the global utility and acceptance” of MintChip. Laurence Cooke, CEO and founder of nanoPay, says its focus is […]
Tags; digital currency, FinTech, innovation, MintChip, nanoPay, Canada, Digital Banking, Funding, News, Payments, Start-ups
Blockchain & back office: a revolutionary change or not?
Blockchain has been hailed as a disruptive force capable of revolutionising the banking sector. While this may be the case to some extent, the impact may be overstated when it comes to wider back office operations, argues Paul Westgate, product manager at Linedata. In the clamour to proclaim blockchain, and those cryptocurrencies built on blockchain technology, […]
Tags; back-office systems, cryptocurrency, Linedata, Banking Tech, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Comment
SIGN UP TO OUR DAILY NEWS DIGEST
Receive FREE Banking Technology news alerts straight to your inbox Sign me up
FEATURES
Infographics: the fintech landscape
It’s infographics time! A great compilation of fintech companies, showing how we’ve gone from graph paper to personal data algorithms – and everything in between.
Tags; Choice Loans, FinTech, infographics, Banking Tech, Digital Banking, Features, Innovation, Mobile, News, Payments, Software-as-a-Service, Start-ups
Move over, London and Berlin, Singapore’s fintech ecosystem is surging ahead
In her new column for Banking Technology, Devie Mohan, a fintech market strategist, looks at how Singapore has created a fintech ecosystem that is a major threat to the ones in London and Berlin.
Tags; ecosystem, FinTech, MAS, Singapore, Banking Tech, Features, Innovation, Partnerships, Regulations
UPCOMING EVENTS
NeMa Africa
London, UK — Nov 28, 2016
Global Custody Forum
London, UK — Nov 28, 2016
Blockchain for Wall Street
New York, USA — Nov 29, 2016
International Financial Reporting & Compliance
Amsterdam — Nov 29, 2016
Net Finance Interactive
Carlsbad, US — Nov 29, 2016
bankingtech.verticalsearchworks.com
HOME
NEWS
Features and Analysis Industry Comment Video
SIBOS
MAGAZINES
Digital Editions Subscribe to magazine Request a sample copy Supplements
AWARDS
RESOURCES
EVENTS
JOBS
MORE
About us Contact us Editorial calendar Advertise with us Sign up to our Daily News Digest Jobs Privacy policy Cookies Policy
© BankingTech.com 2016. All rights reserved.
Tweet
4
in
Share
Follow @bankingtechno@banking
techno