http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/20/coinsecure-launches-bitcoin-app-nearly-200-million-smartphone-users/
Coinsecure Launches Bitcoin App to Nearly 200 Million Smartphone Users - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:59 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Coinsecure Launches Bitcoin App to Nearly 200 Million Smartphone Users
Author
Nick Marinoff
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News
61



Bitcoin and digital currency are developing powerful reputations in India. Recently, UnoCoin took the world by storm when it completed a pre-series A funding round that garnered an impressive $1.5 million in funds, setting records within the cryptocurrency arena.
Now, Indian bitcoin exchange Coinsecure has launched a new mobile app accessible to nearly 200 million smartphone users that allows real-time bitcoin trading on the go. The app also checks pending orders, withdraws and deposit funds accordingly, and features live order books for user access.
Touted as perfect for “bitcoin beginners,” the app is advertised as simple and easy to navigate. Coinsecure CEO and founder Mohit Kalra expressed enthusiasm regarding the app’s release, stating:
“With over 190 million smartphone users in India, putting a technology so disruptive like Bitcoin in their hands is a win-win situation.”
CTO and co-founder of the company Benson Samuel also praised Coinsecure’s spirit and innovation, explaining:
“Coinsecure strives to ensure that users can retain a stellar experience across all platforms. Desktop web was our first build. A mobile app for multiple devices is the next step in bringing Bitcoin to India.”
Coinsecure first rose to power in January of 2015. Less the two years old, the exchange already has quite a resume under its belt, and is looking to accomplish even more in the coming months. It’s motto of bringing bitcoin to India hasn’t faltered, and the company has worked hard to ensure residents receive regular access to a growing (and changing) monetary world.
According to Finance Magnates:
“Coinsecure’s exchange is a real time live spot trading exchange with fully open order books. Coinsecure additionally provides customers with a merchant payment gateway, a variety of wallet services, and a public API.”
Early this year, the company launched a Series A funding round that resulted in over $1.2 million in newly acquired revenue. Recently, the exchange joined hands with merchant services platform BitPay and remittance services company OkLink.
61
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.