http://www.universityherald.com/articles/46129/20161026/bitcoin-cryptocurrency.htm
Bitcoin Might Soon Replace Physical Currency to Pay For College : Finance : University Herald
Friday, Nov 25 2016 | Updated at 10:49 PM EST
Stay Connected With Us F T R
Opinion
Academics
Students
Special Reports
Sports
Finance
Tech
Career
College
Video
Oct 26, 2016 11:48 AM EDT
By Chris Brandt, UniversityHerald Reporter
Bitcoin Might Soon Replace Physical Currency to Pay For College
A number of universities are opening its doors to using Bitcoin as a form of currency for students to pay their college tuition. This gives them alternatives to ease the debt problems they're facing



Many people used to distrust the use of Bitcoin as a form of currency but as counterfeit currency becomes prevalent, more and more institutions are considering it. There are two reasons why Bitcoin has established its reputation: first, it's borderless and second, it cannot be counterfeited. Now, educational institutions are also considering using it to pay for college tuition.
The first university to adopt the use of Bitcoin is the University of Nicosia in Cyprus. It started accepting Bitcoin as a mode of payment as part of their marketing strategy in promoting a new degree program, Master of Science in Digital Currency. One of the program's subjects tackle the use of Bitcoin and it is just apt to allow its student to use it in paying for their tuition. The publicity stunt worked and attracted international media. Since then, more and more universities are following suit.
Meanwhile, the first public university to accept Bitcoin as a form of tuition payment. They opened this possibility in 2014 to those students who want to enroll in two programs they are offering which tackled cryptocurrencies and complementary currencies. Those who completed the programs receive either a certificate in sustainable exchange or a post-grad certificate in sustainable leadership.
Another forward-thinking university that accepts Bitcoin as a payment is the King's College in New York City, a private college known for its degrees in liberal arts. Founded in 1938, the university explained that their decision to accept Bitcoin as a payment was influenced by the U.S. Bill of Rights and the Constitution which support the empowerment of individuals. By doing so, students will have more avenues to use thus, easing the debt problems which a lot of students have been facing.
With more and more universities opening their doors in accepting cryptocurrencies, it won't be long before others will follow suit. For those who are planning to take a master's degree program, it will also help if you check if there are other universities accepting Bitcoin and other similar cryptocurrencies.
Tags bitcoin, cryptocurrency, complementary currency
© 2016 University Herald, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Related Articles
Income Share Agreements: a New Way to Pay for College Education
Personal Finance 101 For College Students: How To Save More At 20
Four Tips On How College Students Can Start Saving Early
Looking for College Scholarships? Books Will Get You Farther Than Home Runs and ...
Donald Trump Offers Tim Cook ‘Very Large Tax Cuts’ To Make Apple Products In ...
Sponsored by Revcontent
Trending Today
Mamá Millonaria De Lima Cuenta La Historia De Cómo Se Gana $472/hr Desde Casa
Millonaria de Lima Revela Cómo Gana $472 la Hora Desde Casa
¡No Necesitas Operarte Para Quitar Los Juanetes!
Millonaria De Lima Expone Cómo Gana 527€/hora Desde Casa
Generate A High-Quality User Experience with Revcontent
Join Revcontent To Increase User Engagement and Reach
Google AMP Builds a Better User Experience on Mobile
Patch.com Chooses Revcontent for Superior Ad Quality and User Experience
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
MUST READ
’The Walking Dead’s Carl Dies In Series? Chandler Riggs Leaving Show For College Education
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
Chandler Riggs is reportedly looking at a different option in his career life. Is he leaving “The Walking Dead” for college? ...
NASA Enlists SpaceX To Take The First Survey Of Earth's Surface Water
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
SpaceX has won the NASA launch contract for the first-ever survey of the Earth's surface water. ...
William Baldwin Talks Project Zero With Massapequa Teachers
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
William “Billy” Baldwin, a co-founder of the Massapequa Community Fund, supports teachers in the district. ...
Personal Finance 101 For College Students: How To Save More At 20
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
You can save money even if you are only 20 years old. With few, simple steps you are able to do it. ...
MOST POPULAR
‘Rick and Morty’ Season 3 Air Date & Update: Series Creators Pushes Release Date to 2017; Plot Suggests Rick’s Escape From Galactic Federation Prison
Nov 23, 2016 PM EST
The third iteration for Adult Swim series’ "Rick and Morty" is reportedly adjusting its timeline release for 2017, according to its series creators ...
iOS 10 Jailbreak Pangu to be Open Source?; An Engineer Links to Pangu Hints at Delayed Release [RUMOR]
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
Pangu remains silent of its iOS 10 jailbreak tool but a new report indicates that the release date could be imminent. ...
Google Nexus 7 Tablet could Steal The Limelight in 2017; Here's Why!
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
Google Nexus 7 and all of its speculations have been circulating through the web for awhile. After investigating all the rumors, these are the ...
‘Pokemon Sun and Moon’ Updates: Pokemon Bank Allows Pokemon Transfer From 6th gen Franchises To ‘Sun and Moon’; How To Transfer Revealed [VIDEO]
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
With the current hype on “Pokemon Sun and Moon’s” global release, Nintendo’s Pokemon Bank service on the 3DS can now make Pokemon transfer ...
‘One Punch Man’ Season 2 Spoilers And Release Date: Saitama Turns Into A Villain With New Fatal Enemies? [Video]
Nov 23, 2016 PM EST
One Punch Man Season two might feature Saitama return as a villain? This plus the return of Lord Boros and a new villain and more are in the works for ...
‘Pokemon GO’ Second Generation Release Date: New Set of Pokemon Released in December with Improved Nearby Tracking System? [VIDEO]
Nov 25, 2016 AM EST
There’s two good news for “Pokemon GO” players out there. First, the release date of second generation Pokemons have been accidentally revealed ...
’The Walking Dead’s Carl Dies In Series? Chandler Riggs Leaving Show For College Education
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
Chandler Riggs is reportedly looking at a different option in his career life. Is he leaving “The Walking Dead” for college? ...
NES Classic Edition Controller Short Cord Length Explained; Much Shorter Than Original [VIDEO]
Nov 25, 2016 AM EST
The probable reason why the NES Classic Edition controller cord length is short has been revealed. A comparison was made between the current ...
Android 7.1 Nougat Rollout to Nexus and Pixel Devices – Check if Nexus 9 and Pixel C are Included [VIDEO]
Nov 24, 2016 AM EST
The second developer preview of Android 7.1 Nougat has been released to selected Nexus and Pixel devices. Check the list of eligible devices here! ...
Secret Method To Acquire Level 10 Salamence On First Island Of ‘Pokemon Sun And Moon’ Revealed [VIDEO]
Nov 22, 2016 AM EST
"Pokemon Sun and Moon" has a new mechanic called S.O.S. Battles, which allows the little monsters that have been found to call for help when they need ...
Get Our FREE Newsletters
Stay Connected With Us F T R
About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us
Copyright © 2016 UNIVERSITY HERALD All rights reserved. Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.

106
SHARES