http://www.travelandleisure.com/travel-tips/budgeting-currency/sweden-digital-money
Why Travelers Should Be Excited About Sweden’s Idea for Digital Money | Travel + Leisure
Skip to main content
Travel + Leisure
T+L Travel Tips Travel Budgeting + Currency Sweden
Why Travelers Should Be Excited About Sweden’s Idea for Digital Money
by Cailey Rizzo November 17, 2016
Getty Images


Sweden’s Central Bank announced on Wednesday that it is researching the possibility of introducing a digital currency.
“The declining use of cash in Sweden means that this is more of a burning issue for us than for most other central banks,” Sweden’s deputy governor of Riksbank, Cecilia Skingsley, said in a statement. “Although it may appear simple at first glance to issue e-krona, this is something entirely new for a central bank and there is no precedent to follow.”
The digital currency would not replace a physical Swedish krona, but act as its complement. Riksbank said that it would continue producing a physical currency as long as there was demand for it in Sweden.
But the e-Krona, were it introduced, could eliminate currency exchange woes for travelers. Travelers would be able to purchase foreign currency before they leave home and take it with them. It could mean the end of making a trip to the bank pre-trip or finding a currency exchange in the airport.  
“Compared with those ancient money exchange kiosks, it's actually easier and less costly to exchange fiat currency for digital currencies, through regulated exchanges online,” David Berger, CEO of Digital Currency Council, told Travel + Leisure. “It's not just theoretical. It's being done by travelers every day.”
Bitcoin is probably the most popular digital currency among some high tech travelers. It’s possible to pay for flights, hotels and even activities or tours abroad with Bitcoin. It eliminates any wonky conversion mental math (if you know the exact value of your Bitcoin).
One man even went on a trip around the world, paying for everything solely with Bitcoin.  His journey took one full calendar year. In that time he visited 14 countries. He paraglided through Turkey, paid for a pasta lunch in the Czech Republic and retrieved local currency from ATMs—all with Bitcoin
“A decentralized digital currency future promises to eventually offer a much faster, cheaper, more transparent, more frictionless money system for everyone. That said, it'll take time to get there,” Berger told T+L. “Things like Apple Pay will make more of an impact in the next two years, but bitcoin and decentralized digital currencies will be by far the bigger deal over the next 20.”
Sponsored Content
The US Presidents Ranked from Richest to Poorest
InsideGov | By Graphiq
The Canines With the Highest Price Tags
Best Dog Breeds - Pictures, Information, and Reviews
Best Places in the U.S. to Watch the Sunset
Parachute by MapQuest
8 Things Smoking Weed Does to Your Body
Men's Fitness
25 Italian Baby Names You'll Want to Steal
MooseRoots | By Graphiq
This Is the Most Famous Actor Born the Same Year as You
PrettyFamous | By Graphiq
Recommended by
More from T+L
THAILAND
What Travelers Should Know About Thailand's Official Year of Mourning
HOTELS + RESORTS
Sweden’s Ice Hotel To Stay Open All Year Long
TRAVEL TIPS
Travel Non-Essentials: Should You Buy This Stretchable Money Belt?
Digital Travel News: Resources for the Road
TRAVEL TIPS
What You Should Really be Worrying About if You're Traveling to Cuba
Uber Hacks Every Passenger Should Know About
Why We Travel
All products and services featured are selected by our editors. Travel + Leisure may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website.
Sign up for free
T+L Newsletters
Travel Guides
Hotels + Resorts
Travel News
Travel Tips
Travel Videos
T+L Journeys
One-Click Trips
Flight Deals
Trip Ideas
Give a Gift
T+L Travel Guide App
World's Best Awards
Best Travel Agents
Holiday Travel
Cruises
Weekend Getaways
Food + Drink
Travel Tech
Attractions
Subscribe
Company Info
Time Inc. Corporate Site
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Advertising
Ad Choices
Sitemap
Travel Sitemap
Time Inc. Careers
Travel + Leisure
© 2016 Time Inc. Affluent Media Group.
All rights reserved.