http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/24/bitcoin-unlimited-adoption-mayy-lead-network-centralization/
Bitcoin Unlimited Adoption May Lead To Network Centralization
25-11-2016
05:30 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Unlimited Adoption May Lead To Network Centralization
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News, Opinion
41



The crux of the problem with Bitcoin Unlimited is that the economic majority is making the decisions, including the decision of who gets to be a part of the economic majority (by increasing the cost of participation).
Ever since Bitcoin Unlimited gained traction, there has been substantial debate regarding this solution. If all network nodes would be able to select their block size, an interesting future is created. However, this idea poses a set of new problems that need to be addressed in the future. Some people even speculate Bitcoin Unlimited would eventually lead to centralization.
There are many different opinions on what Bitcoin Unlimited brings to the table. Since there does not seem to be a “fixed” block size solution that pleases everyone, a variable approach seems warranted. At the same time, every node is given “economic power” which can cause a set of different problems.
Some Concerns Over Bitcoin Unlimited
With miners being able to pick their own block sizes, particular nodes may ignore their blocks for being too large. Blocks are too small may be “forked off the network,” as they do not follow the longest chain. Raising the block size is one thing, but finding that middle ground will be a bigger challenge than ever before.
Nebulous Inc CEO David Vorick explained it as follows:
“The crux of the problem with Bitcoin Unlimited is that the economic majority is making the decisions, including the decision of who gets to be a part of the economic majority (by increasing the cost of participation). Those in power can use that ability to bring more power towards themselves by making the system too expensive for the less powerful to participate. This is a massive centralization pressure, and would be a disaster for any cryptocurrency with decentralization as a goal.”
Following his train of thought, it seems plausible the number of centralized parties “controlling” Bitcoin will shrink over time. This is not a positive development by any means. Economic majority incentivizes big players to cut out the small competitors, and giving them a block size carte blanche will only facilitate that change.
Albeit this vision may be a bit too black-and-white, it goes to show there are market conditions that can make or break the Bitcoin Unlimited approach. Decentralization has always been the aspect drawing people to Bitcoin. Using a way to create different blockchain sizes – and forking Bitcoin as a result – may not be the best course of action.
At the same time, it’s nice to see competition in the development space. Different ideas will eventually lead to a solution that works for everyone. Leveraging the power of the free market to end this discussion once and for all seems to be the best course of action. For now, it appears decentralization and Bitcoin Unlimited do not necessarily go hand-in-hand, which is quite worrisome.
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
41
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×