http://www.ebnonline.com/author.asp?section_id=3219&doc_id=281887
EBN - Hailey Lynne McKeefry - Blockchain Set to Transform Supply Chain
Home
Blogs
Message Boards
Research
Key Sections
|
Join
Login
About
Shift Happens: RFQ Management Gets Beyond Spreadsheets - For years, companies have ...
HAILEY LYNNE MCKEEFRY
Blockchain Set to Transform Supply Chain
BIO
EMAIL THIS
PRINT
COMMENT
  Hailey Lynne McKeefry, Editor in Chief
10/21/2016   (1) comment
NO RATINGS
LOGIN TO RATE
in
Share
57
Bitcoin has gone beyond being a tool for geeks to trade money. Now, cryptocurrency and related technologies are set to enable new types of contracts and business dealings in financial services.
The market is poised for stellar growth. A new market research report published by MarketsandMarkets estimates that the blockchain technology market will grow from $210.2 million in 2016 to $2,312.5 million by 2021, in its report titled Blockchain Technology Market— Global Forecast to 2021. That represents at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 61.5%. "The major driving forces for this growth are transparency, immutability & scalability, and huge opportunities across industry verticals in APAC countries, especially India, Australia, and China," the report said.
It's a short hop to thinking about how these technologies may change the supply chain as well.  PwC offers the following definitions:
Blockchain is the technology that enables the existence of cryptocurrency (among other things). It is, quite simply, a digital, decentralized ledger that keeps a record of all transactions that take place across a peer-to-peer network.
Bitcoin is the name of the best-known cryptocurrency, the one for which blockchain technology was invented.
A cryptocurrency is a medium of exchange, such as the US dollar, but is digital and uses encryption techniques to control the creation of monetary units and to verify the transfer of funds.
Blockchain has supply chain aficionados excited because the technology will support new business processes that allow for assets to be transferred over the Internet without the need for a centralized third party. PwC said:
From a business perspective, it's helpful to think of blockchain technology as a type of next-generation business process improvement software. Collaborative technology, such as blockchain, promises the ability to improve the business processes that occur between companies, radically lowering the'cost of trust.'
This thought has the potential of bringing supply chain automation to the next level. Market research firm Gartner said:
While the current hype is around the financial services industry, there are many possible applications including music distribution, identity verification, title registry and supply chain.
Supply chain managers could, conceivably, create smart contracts that could basically execute themselves on certain types of buys. Take a look at the infographic below and then let us know what applications you see in your industry or company in the comments section below.
— Hailey Lynne McKeefry, Editor in Chief, EBN
EMAIL THIS
PRINT
COMMENT
COMMENTS
VIEW COMMENTS: NEWEST FIRST | OLDEST FIRST | THREADED
USER RANK
STOCK KEEPER
Antoni van Leeuwenhoek
bazooka   10/23/2016 8:32:58 AM
NO RATINGS
LOGIN TO RATE

Great article, thank you EBN!

REPLY   POST MESSAGE   MESSAGES LIST   START A BOARD


More Blogs from Hailey Lynne McKeefry
Black Friday: Will It Achieve National Holiday Status?
(0) comments
Online shopping site wants Black Friday to take its place on the calendar as an official national holiday. Electronics retailers may agree.
10 Ways to Woo Supply Chain Talent
(0) comments
Let people know that supply chain and logistics offer some great opportunities for a fulfilling career. It's time to close the talent gap.
The Ebbing Appeal of Black Friday
(0) comments
With more choices, many consumers are losing interest in celebrating Black Friday the good old fashioned way. Electronics retailers need to up their game to capture customers.
Time for Supply Chain to Scale the Data Governance Mountain
(0) comments
Most electronics OEMs are probably just starting the journey to real and proactive data governance. However, the benefits for getting there are plentiful.
Top 25 Undergraduate Supply Chain Programs
(0) comments
Some of the most well known universities in the country offer undergraduate programs to get students started down the supply chain path.
MORE FROM HAILEY LYNNE MCKEEFRY
Datasheets.com Parts Search
185 million searchable parts
(please enter a part number or hit search to begin)
EBN Newswire
  11/23/2016
The MonarchFx Alliance
  11/23/2016
New Yorker Electronics Rolls Out New Series of ...
  11/11/2016
XP Power Signs Global Distribution Agreement with RS ...
  11/11/2016
Positronic Appoints Powell Electronics as Authorized ...
  11/11/2016
LACROIX Electronics and Witekio, a Partnership Serving ...
  11/2/2016
Dachser Continues to Grow in APAC
  11/2/2016
Morrison Express introduces South China Bonded ...
  11/2/2016
Paragon Software Systems Expands Vehicle Tracking ...
  11/2/2016
Mouser Electronics, Grant Imahara and Local Motors ...
  11/2/2016
Icon Labs Launches Embedded Credentialing Solution for ...
  11/2/2016
In Preparation for Winter, A. Duie Pyle Begins Protect ...
  11/2/2016
Nano Dimension Explores the Future of 3D Printed ...
MORE NEWSWIRE
Latest Poll
How many years away are we from mainsteam delivery services via drone technology?
  Two years
  Four Years
  Eight Years
  More than 10 years
(11) Comments
MORE POLLS
Twitter Feed
follow us
Resources
sponsored content
It’s Cool Working at ASML if You Got Supply Chain DNA
The Chief Supply Chain Officer Report 2014
Avnet Electronics Marketing Market and Technology Trends, May 2014
Avnet Electronics Marketing Market and Technology Trends, April 2014
Q&A with Avnet Inc. CEO Rick Hamada
MORE RESOURCES
EBN Dialogue / LIVE CHAT
EBN Dialogue enables you to participate in live chats with notable leaders and luminaries. Open to the entire EBN community of electronics supply chain experts, these conversations see ideas shared, comments made, and questions asked and answered in real time. Listed below are upcoming and archived chats. Stay tuned and join in!
Archived Dialogues
Live Chat 01/15: CPOs Re-Shape Their Business Roles
Increasingly chief procurement officers (CPOs) are re-shaping their organizational role to focus on creating results far beyond cost controls. A new IBM survey explores how.
Read
Live Chat 11/12: Examining the Cyberthreat to Supply Chains
The number of cyberattacks is on the rise and hackers are targeting the supply chain. Drew Smith, founder and CEO of InfoArmor, will be on hand to discuss the reality of today's threat landscape and what to do about it.
Read
ALL ARCHIVED DIALOGUES
HOME
BLOGS
MESSAGE BOARDS
RESEARCH
|
JOIN
LOGIN
ABOUT
RSS   Contact Us   Help
GLOBAL NETWORK EE Times Asia EE Times China EE Times Europe EE Times India EE Times Japan EE Times Korea EE Times Taiwan EDN Asia EDN China EDN Japan ESC Brazil
Communities
EE Times | EDN | EBN | DataSheets.com | Embedded | TechOnline | Design News | DesignCon | ESC
Working With Us: About | Editorial Policies | Contact Us | Media Kits | Reprints
Terms of Service | Privacy Statement | Copyright © 2016 AspenCore All Rights Reserved