http://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/bitcoins-may-gain-ground-as-govt-fights-black-money/story-8eVzxnr2jGqAog7iZkP1YP.html
Bitcoins may gain ground as govt fights black money | business-news | Hindustan Times
follow us:
epaper
india
world
cities
opinion
sports
entertainment
lifestyle
tech
photos
videos
more...
black money crackdown print fashion week 2016 breathless in delhi ht long reads bigg boss 10 movie reviews ht paathshala
Bitcoins may gain ground as govt fights black money
Sunny Sen, Hindutan Times, New Delhi |  Updated: Nov 11, 2016 14:08 IST
Queries for bitcoins have gone up by 20% to 30% in the past couple of days, according to ZepPay, the largest trader of the digital currency in the country, which is adding 25,000 new bitcoin customers every month.
Those who possess bitcoins in India feel the government’s drive against black money will help the paperless, bank-less, and state-less currency gain ground.
Queries for bitcoins have gone up by 20% to 30% in the past couple of days, according to ZebPay, the largest trader of the digital currency in the country, which is adding 25,000 new bitcoin customers every month.
ZebPay already has 200,000 of the 400,000 odd bitcoin owners in the country. “People who never talked about bitcoins called me. Financial companies also want to invest in bitcoins ... that’s a big change in a country where bitcoins have not taken off,” said Saurabh Agrawal, CEO of the company.
Bitcoins are a digital currency, made by computers, whose prices are validated through a public ledger. Many in the US, UK and China invest in bitcoins to hedge against the share market risk. This money can, like any digital money, be used to pay for goods and services, such as buying coffee, a meal at a restaurant or even clothes.
Though not many merchants are accepting bitcoins in India, wallet holders (like a ZebPay customer) can buy Amazon or MakeMyTrip vouchers, or pay bills with the money.
In Unocoin, 2,000 merchants and vendors are accepting bitcoins. Sapna Book House, India’s largest bookstore chain before Amazon set up shop here, also accepts bitcoins. “People are getting remittances in bitcoins, instead of Paypal. They are able to liquidate them by paying just 1% transaction fee,” said Sathvik Vishwanath, CEO and co-founder, Unocoin.
He is also coming out with point-of-sale app to accept bitcoins. However, few are making transactions with the new form of digital money. “People are just buying it and holding on to it … if they want to sell, they deposit the coins in their Unocoin wallet, and the money is transferred to their bank account in two hours,” said Vishwanath.
As queries from India grew, the prices surged – bitcoins were 8% costlier than in the US. That is also because not many are developed in India. The market is also small – India does business of ₹5 crore every day (China ₹10,000 crore, the US ₹2,000 crore).
Agrawal hopes there will now be a surge in demand. “Only when something like this happens (currency notes removed), the millennials think digital asset is the future.”
Tags Bitcoins ZebPay state-less Financial companies coin index
Read more from Livemint
Cuba’s Fidel Castro, who defied US for 50 years, dies at 90
Eight years of Mumbai attacks: Coastline still vulnerable
What is Constitution Day?
Sponsored by Revcontent
From Around the Web
La "Píldora Billonaria": Dobla Tu CI En Solo 14 Días!
BrainPlus IQ
El Nuevo Método Para Ganar Dinero Que Es Furor En Jubilados De Peru
Daily24
Abuela De 72 Años Choca Dermatólogos: 20 Años Más Joven, Con Esta Crema
BellaVei
¡No Necesitas Operarte Para Quitar Los Juanetes!
Valgomed
Millonaria De Lima Expone Cómo Gana 527€/hora Desde Casa
Daily24
Esto Producto Regenera El Cabello De Forma Natural
Natural Beauty Lifestyles
also read
Watch: Adani, Ambani had prior info on demonetisation, says BJP MLA Rajawat
Kejriwal and Paytm CEO in Twitter war over demonetisation
Why the currency switch is a political blunder by the BJP
Govt says deposits above Rs 2.5 lakh to be taxed: Your 4 questions answered
Show comments
top news
Cuban revolutionary leader Fidel Castro, who defied US for 50 years, dies
Modi's move bold, can't imagine what will happen here: Chinese medi
India vs England, Live Cricket Score, 3rd Test, Day 1 : Bowlers rock ENG at lun
most popular
Modi’s notes ban move could become costly political joke, says Chinese media
Why Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already won the demonetisation gambit
Rs 53,000 crore received in deposits after demonetisation move: SBI
don't miss
Dear Zindagi review: Shah Rukh Khan is charming but this life is unreal
A 'chai, paani wala' wedding: Surat couple gets married in just Rs
Victoria makes bad look so good: Priyanka Chopra on her Baywatch character
editor's pick
Hindus, Sikhs should not be delusional about alliances with neo-Nazis
Donald Trump has picked Nikki Haley for a thankless job
PM Modi's security policies for India imperfect but can be rectified
video
photo
Scrat, Pikachu and Santa make Macy's Annual Thanksgiving Day Parade awesom
Here's how a garage-turned-studio sways to the rhythm of Odissi dance
Let it loose: It's time to go Befikre with Ranveer Singh, Vaani Kapoor.
india
world
opinion
analysis
columns
editorials
blogs
authors
cities
delhi
gurgaon
noida
mumbai
bhopal
chandigarh
dehradun
indore
jaipur
kolkata
lucknow
patna
ranchi
sports
cricket
football
tennis
other sports
entertainment
movie reviews
bollywood
hollywood
regional movies
world cinema
tv
music
tabloid
lifestyle
sex &relationships
health & fitness
fashion & trends
art & culture
travel
books
brunch
weekend
tech
photos
india
world
cartoons
sports
entertainment
lifestyle
tech
autos
videos
india
world
sports
entertainment
lifestyle
tech
autos
education
business
ht-indepth
real estate
autos
punjab
epaper
weather
livemint
livehindustan
shine
HTcampus
desimartini
ht-syndication
Copyright © 2016 HT Media Limited.
ht delhi/ncr subscription | about us|contact us|work with us|privacy policy|disclaimer|print ad rates|jobs|rss