http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/29/chinese-yuan-bitcoin-crosses-700-again/
Thanks to Chinese Yuan, Bitcoin Crosses $700 Once Again - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
05:31 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Global
Thanks to Chinese Yuan, Bitcoin Crosses $700 Once Again
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, News
139



The falling Chinese yuan has yet again led to a rise in the demand for Bitcoin among Chinese investors. Read more...
Bitcoin price has picked up yet again. The price of the popular digital currency has crossed the $700 mark. Like always, even this time the increase in price is driven by rising demand among the Chinese investors.
The latest developments in Bitcoin ecosystem is being closely watched not just by the cryptocurrency community, but also mainstream media and conventional financial institutions. Various leading news media outlets are reporting the surge in digital currency price, which is at its best since June 2016.  According to reports, the depreciation of Chinese currency has turned investors to Bitcoin as a measure to protect their money from falling yuan.
The value of Bitcoin was hovering around the $640 mark until last week. In the past 7 days, the price has increased by over $60 which is close to 10% appreciation as Chinese yuan hit a six-year low against US dollar. The correlation between falling yuan and increasing Bitcoin price was reiterated by Jack Liu, chief strategy officer at OKCoin — a Hong Kong-based cryptocurrency exchange platform.  Liu was quoted by few media outlets saying,
“There is a premium in Bitcoin pricing in China as a hedge against the yuan.” According to his forecast, “[Bitcoin] strength is likely to carry into year-end.”
For a country with strict currency controls in place, Bitcoin is a welcome sight as investors can easily circumvent these regulations and invest in digital currencies. The value of Bitcoin is expected increase further, driven by unexpected events. Few industry experts believe that by the end of 2016, Bitcoin prices will cross $700 and stabilize. Even though the cryptocurrency is already trading at $704, there are chances of it dropping a few notches in the coming days.
The previous similar occurrence was witnessed following Brexit. The falling Pound Sterling briefly drove the value of Bitcoin beyond $700, only to come down after Bitfinex exchange platform got hacked.
Bitcoin has shown nothing but a promise of better future. We can expect it get better with each day.
Ref: Bloomberg |RT | CoinMarketCap | Image: ShutterStock
  139
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×