http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/06/platforms-include-zcash-support/
Popular Platforms Include ZCash Support Owing to Its Increasing Popularity - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
05:26 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Popular Platforms Include ZCash Support Owing to Its Increasing Popularity
Author
Gautham
Categories
Altcoins, Bitcoin, Blockchain Technology, News



As ZCash gains popularity more platforms include support for the private and anonymous cryptocurrency. Read more...
ZCash (ZEC), the private and anonymous cryptocurrency built over Bitcoin code has been gaining a lot of traction lately. The cryptocurrency community’s interest in ZCash has forced many companies to integrate it into their products. The latest ones to do so in the past couple of weeks include Jaxx— the blockchain wallet platform and Shapeshift — the crypto to crypto exchange.
With the inclusion of support for ZEC, the total number of cryptocurrencies supported by Jaxx blockchain wallet now stands at nine including Bitcoin, Ethereum, DAO, DASH, Augur REP, Litecoin, Ethereum Classic, ZCash and Rootstock. On a mission to become a one point blockchain interface, Decentral is in the process of continuously adding new cryptocurrencies to the wallet application. Jaxx is available for everyone irrespective of the operating system or the device they own. The application is available for Android, Apple OSX/SierraOS, Chrome, Firefox, Linux and even iOS. However, the iOS version of Jaxx has limited support for cryptocurrencies due to Apple’s strict policies. Users can only access Bitcoin, Ethereum, DAO and Litecoin support features on their Apple iPhone apps.
Shapeshift, the leading online cryptocurrency exchange platform also announced the inclusion of ZCash support late last month. With the inclusion of ZCash, the total number of cryptocurrencies supported by the platform now stands at thirty-nine. Users can exchange any of the 38 listed cryptocurrencies for ZEC and vice versa.
In its blog, Shapeshift quotes the co-founder of ZCash — Zooko Wilcox explaining the cryptocurrency,
“Zcash is a new technology that lets you put encrypted data into a blockchain. Blockchains as they currently exist, don’t offer much (or any) control over the disclosure of the data that you put on the blockchain. Any data that you put in there is visible to all users of the blockchain. Zcash makes blockchains useful for a whole range of applications that the cleartext, fully transparent blockchains cannot be used for; including fintech, healthcare, retail (buying/selling goods or services), etc. “
Freewallet.org, the cryptocurrency mobile wallets developer recently enabled users to purchase ZEC with credit cards on its platform.
Ref: Shapeshift | Decentral | Image: NewsBTC
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.