http://www.coindesk.com/press-releases/trust-zone-anonymous-vpn-service/
Anonymous VPN Service Trust.Zone Announces Discounts for Bitcoin Users Only - Press Release
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$729
$734
$739
USD -0.01%
$738.24
CNY 0.18%
¥5,193.72
EUR €696.82
GBP £591.43
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
Anonymous VPN Service Trust.Zone Announces Discounts for Bitcoin Users Only
Source: Trust.Zone
PRESS RELEASE
29
SC, October 5, 2016 at 16:14 GMT
Trust.Zone VPN, the world’s leading anonymous and logless VPN service, offered exclusive discounts for Bitcoin users only.
Users who pay for anonymous VPN service by Bitcoin can now get discount of 10% while subscribing to VPN plans.
Trust.Zone is one of the popular VPN services for anonymous browsing on the web. The service provides users with anonymous browsing on the Internet, allows hiding IP address of the user, access to geo-restricted content like Netflix and Hulu, bypassing censorship on the web and unblocking restricted websites.
One of the unique features of Trust.Zone VPN is no logging at all. Service doesn’t store any logs of users’ internet activity. Besides, Trust.Zone prevents Internet Service Providers from monitoring and tracking internet activity of the users by hiding real location of the user and encrypting traffic between user and his Internet Service Provider.
Trust.Zone is one of the first VPN services which doesn’t need any personal details of client. First name, last name, credit cards details are not needed anymore. If client pays for the service by Bitcoin he gets the complete anonymity. With no details of client and Bitcoin anonymous payment method Trust.Zone became one the most anonymous VPN service on the web.
Besides, Trust.Zone is under Seychelles jurisdiction. Seychelles is not in the list of "Fourteen Eyes" Countries”. Fourteen Eyes" Countries are countries that like to spy on each other’s citizens (The UK, The US, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway,, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden). Offshore jurisdiction allows free and safe usage of p2p and BitTorrent networks while using a VPN with no risk.
With a new 10% discount offered by Trust.Zone for Bitcoin shoppers, users are able to buy 1 year unlimited VPN for just 2.69$ per month which is one of the cheapest cost of VPN service among top VPN services.
  Learn more about Trust.Zone VPN Service - https://trust.zone
Get 10% Discount by Bitcoin here https://trust.zone/order?plan=15&method=bitcoin
  Company details:
Company name: Trust.Zone
Address: Unit 117, Orion Mall, Palm Street, P.O. Box 828, Victoria, Mahe, Seychelles
Contact person: Robert Goldberg
Contact email: contactus@trust.zone
The publication of a press release on this page should not be viewed as an endorsement by CoinDesk. Customers should do their own research before investing funds in any company.
Press Contact
Name
Robert Goldberg
Email address
contactus@trust.zone
Phone number
None
29
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact