http://www.coindesk.com/bitcoin-traders-believe-trump-win-trigger-price-boost/
Bitcoin Traders Believe Trump Win Could Trigger Price Boost - CoinDesk
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$730
$734
$738
USD -0.17%
$737.04
CNY 0.16%
¥5,192.89
EUR €695.69
GBP £590.47
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
FEATURES  •  PRICES
Bitcoin Traders Believe Trump Win Could Trigger Price Boost
Charles Bovaird | Published on November 8, 2016 at 11:56 GMT
FEATURE
365
17
2
Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump?
While America may be undecided, there's a widespread belief among bitcoin investors and analysts that a Trump presidency would provide a limited, but impactful, boost to bitcoin prices.
Such commentary follows on the heels of the UK's decision to leave the European Union in June, a development that many analysts credited with spurring uncertainty and causing a $100 increase in the price of bitcoin over just one trading session.
Analysts noted that while the digital currency markets might not see any significant change from Clinton's election, Trump could offer a marked contrast due to how his election is likely to impact global investors. Previously put forward by independent research, traders appear now to largely agree Trump would be a boon for bitcoin business.
Cryptocurrency hedge fund manager Jacob Eliosoff told CoinDesk:
"I think a Trump presidency would be great for bitcoin, much like nuclear war would be great for bitcoin. It would be an epic disaster in a bunch of respects – economic, geopolitical, democratic – and in the fear and chaos bitcoin would be a defensive asset people could turn to.”
Elsewhere, analysts took a less alarming tone to the potential results, stating a Trump win could provide a small but notable boost for the digital currency.
If Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton wins, it will have “little or no" effect on bitcoin prices, said another cryptocurrency hedge fund manager, Tim Enneking.
If anything, the digital currency might "fall a bit," he said.
Certain political observers have predicted that if Clinton wins, her policy stances could result in her term largely being a continuation of President Obama's. Amid perceptions like these, many expect that her ascension to the Oval Office would come with limited uncertainty.
Others have suggested Clinton could be a boon for the public blockchain markets given her open embrace of the tech as part of her innovation platform. However, her policy to all parts of the ecosystem, including bitcoin, arguably aren't yet clear.
The Trump effect
While Trump hasn't put the digital currency on his agenda, he has cast himself as a Washington outsider, something that traders believe could stoke uncertainty (and with it a move toward alternative assets).
This could create only a temporary jump in bitcoin prices, predicted Enneking, but he suggested it would have little lasting effect.
"[Trump] would certainly increase uncertainty domestically and, to some extent, globally, and that would provide a short-term, upward push to bitcoin prices," he said.
Petar Zivkovski, director of operations for leveraged bitcoin trading platform Whaleclub, provided similar input, emphasizing the uncertainty that would surround a Trump victory would create a “short-lived” impact on bitcoin prices.
He added:
"I don't see large institutions pouring smart money into bitcoin due to a potential Trump presidency."
Even those who did not offer an opinion on which candidate would boost the markets were ready for increased trading.
Mark Lamb, CEO of UK-based Coinfloor, for instance, noted he expects increased volumes as a result of the US election.
Non-traditional assets
Still, there was a sense that any boost to bitcoin would further cement its status as one of the newer and more unconventional "safe haven" assets in times of financial crisis.
ARK Invest's Chris Burniske, for example, emphasized that bitcoin can prove helpful for those looking to diversify their portfolios in unpredictable times, and said the election could add evidence to this claim.
"The way in which its price movement is uncorrelated from other capital market assets may be a desirable characteristic for many investors in the face of uncertainty," he said. "Depending on how people feel about the election, they may choose to hedge themselves from the more traditional markets by using bitcoin."
Bobby Lee, CEO of China-based bitcoin exchange BTCC, was less concerned about the election, asserting that bitcoin will enjoy adoption as a financial tool no matter the outcome.
Lee told CoinDesk:
"Regardless of who wins the elections in November, an increasing number of people will invest in bitcoin because of its limited issuance, decentralized nature and immunity from the whims of economic planners."
Bitcoin dollars image via Shutterstock
Donald TrumpHillary ClintonPolitics
365
17
2
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Overstock Invests in Blockchain Voting Startup SettleMint
NEXT ARTICLE
R3 Launches Blockchain Lab in Singapore
Don't miss a single story
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
RELATED STORIES
OPINION
Nov 20, 2016 at 14:53 | Josh Stark
Making Sense of Blockchain Governance Applications
Ledger Labs' Josh Stark seeks to provide a high-level framework for understanding the potential of nascent blockchain governance applications.
FEATURE
Nov 15, 2016 at 15:59 | Michael del Castillo
Blockchain Won't Just Change Regulation, it Could Reshape the SEC
SEC commissioner's departure are just part of the remaking of regulation thanks to Donald Trump and blockchain.
OPINION
Nov 13, 2016 at 17:04 | Michael J Casey
Will Bitcoin Have its Moment in the Trump Era?
Why a Trump presidency might bring about the fall of the dollar, with digital money as its replacement.
NEWS
Nov 10, 2016 at 12:16 | Stan Higgins
Trump Election Casts Uncertain Shadow on US Blockchain Policy
Leading blockchain policy groups weigh in on what a Trump victory means for the emerging technology and its startup community.
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Registration Is Open!
Only 75 tickets available at $999
REGISTER NOW
FEATURES
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
INDUSTRY PRESS RELEASES
Nov 23 | 14:13
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Nov 23 | 09:00
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Nov 22 | 15:25
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Nov 22 | 01:30
Accepting Cash Deposits with Flexepin
VIEW MORE

SUBMIT RELEASE

Got a news tip or guest feature?
DON'T MISS A SINGLE STORY
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact

Never Miss a Story
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.
No, thanks.