http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/19/western-unions-revenue-drops-amid-rise-p2p-services-bitcoin/
Western Union Revenue Drops amid Rise of P2P Services such as Bitcoin
25-11-2016
05:25 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Western Union Revenue Drops amid Rise of P2P Services such as Bitcoin
Author
JP Buntinx
Categories
Bitcoin, Bitcoin News, News, Opinion
88



It is rather striking to see the average cost of Western Union transfers has remained virtually unchanged since 2014. A rather strange development, considering other providers managed to reduce their fees in the same period.
In a new report by FXCompared, it has become evident the money transfer business is starting to lose momentum. In most cases, sending money around the world remains a very expensive business. Up-and-coming solutions such as cheaper remittance, and even cryptocurrencies, present far cheaper and global options. Mostly Western Union is losing out on a lot of money. Not entirely surprising given their ridiculous fees.
When people think of money transfer solutions, they envision visiting a local branch of a remittance company to pick up funds. Others may think of receiving wire transfers, which can take days or weeks to complete. But in the Bitcoin world, transfers of value happen instantaneously, with no intermediaries, and marginal fees.
As far as traditional money transfer companies go, there are only a few with a very strong reputation. Western Union and MoneyGram are two names that come to mind almost immediately. But in recent times, newcomers such as TransferWise and TransferGo have proven things can be done more convenient and at cheaper rates.
The Tide Is Turning for Western Union
According to the new report by FXCompared, the money transfer industry is in a bit of a pickle. This has to be taken with a grain of salt, though, as there is still a lot of money being transferred through these companies. With the competition taking place in the transaction fees department, it was only a matter of time until a revenue shift started to occur.
For Western Union, the trend is not overly positive right now. Albeit the company has tried to not increase transaction costs in recent years, the fee is still rather high. The average remittance transfer fee is still 7.5%, which is a lot of money for a service virtually anyone with the cash flow could provide. In the case of Western Union, they remain the second most expensive company to transfer money around the world to date.
It is rather striking to see the average cost of Western Union transfers has remained virtually unchanged since 2014. A rather strange development, considering other providers managed to reduce their fees in the same period. At the same time, it is anything but surprising Western Union’s financial have declined. Both the consumer-to-consumer operating margins and revenue per-transaction have dropped significantly.
Rest assured this has everything to do with a competitive market. Up-and-coming services focus on lower fees, which benefits the consumers. Western Union has the brand recognition and is present in virtually every city. But Bitcoin, the third dog in the fight, provides global coverage without officers, staffers, or exuberant fees. Which option would you choose?
Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
88
PUBLISHED BY
JP Buntinx
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×