https://coinreport.net/dash-integrated-living-room-satoshi/
CoinReport Dash integrated into Living Room of Satoshi
Home
Sitemap
Editorial Guidelines
About Us
Contact
Advertising
HOME
NEWS
INTERVIEWS
LIFESTYLE
WEEKLY
TOP 5
EVENTS
COIN 101
HOW-TO’S
PRESS RELEASES
Dash integrated into Living Room of Satoshi
Posted On 06 Nov 2016By : Tabish FarazComment: 0Tag: Daniel Alexiuc, Daniel Diaz, Dash, Living Room of Satoshi, LRoS
Open source, decentralized cryptocurrency dash has been integrated into one of Australia’s most promising digital currency companies, Living Room of Satoshi (LRoS), a business that has already transformed the way people pay their bills online, said a dash-LRoS joint press release sent to CoinReport.
LRoS, which was founded just two years ago, was awarded the 2015 Australian Startup of the Year award by StartupSmart for the innovative way the firm lets Australians pay their everyday bills with digital currency, including government tax bills, rent, phone bills, utilities, insurance bills, credit card debit and speeding fines. The service is linked to BPAY, an online bill payment mechanism accepted by over 45,000 companies across Australia.
Dash’s integration into LRoS makes the cryptocurrency the only other option for bill payments on LRoS.
LRoS has processed over $2 million AUD in the first three quarters of 2016, a 250% increase from $800,000 AUD the previous year.
Living Room of Satoshi founder & CEO Daniel Alexiuc
“We attribute the success of Living Room of Satoshi to an unwavering focus on ease of use. When I pay a bill, I want the process to be as quick and easy as possible, and that attitude is reflected in every aspect of our service,” said Living Room of Satoshi founder and CEO Daniel Alexiuc on the occasion.
“Even those new to digital currencies have noted how simple our site is to use; there is no signup required, just simply enter the bill details, pay your bill, and you’re done. We have just passed the milestone of processing over $100,000 AUD per week, with no sign of slowing down.”
Dash had a humble start as a privacy-centric cryptocurrency project. It has since grown into a next-generation payments substitute for the real world, impeccably matching the requirements for Living Room of Satoshi.
“We’ve tested other coins like Ethereum, but frequent hard forks and reliability issues made it unfeasible. Dash is perfectly suited as a payment system for bills and real world purchasing of goods and services. From the start, Dash was able to fill the holes Bitcoin created. Dash has the ability to effect transactions instantly, compared to prolonged bitcoin payments lagging over 10 minutes,” added Alexiuc.
The market cap of dash has quintupled in value in a year and experienced a 3000% increase in 24-hour trading volume from October 31, 2015 ($40,000 USD) to October 31, 2016 ($1.2 million USD), said the press release.
Daniel Diaz, vice president of business development for dash, said, “We are happy to see true innovators in the space endorse Dash as the leading payment network alternative for their users. In this case, Dash’s focus on instant confirmations and usability makes it the ideal fit for Living Room of Satoshi and will dramatically enhance the user experience. The growing amount of options to use Dash as ‘digital cash’ is the result of our overall strategy to develop a smooth roadway bringing cryptocurrencies into the hand of consumers all over the world.”
LRoS will be utilizing dash’s InstantSend technology when the Australian Banking Industry unchains its New Payments Platform, planned for early next year. The enterprise will let real-time bank transfers between local Australian banking establishments to be possible i.e. instant, international fiat payments can be made to any Australian bank account from anywhere in the world using dash.
“The InstantSend feature of Dash separates them from every other cryptocurrency in the space. The integration with Living Room of Satoshi will ensure that money is sent and received faster than ever before, heightening user experience,” Alexiuc added.
Image credits:
Dash logo – Courtesy of dash via PR firm Wachsman PR
LRoS logo and Daniel Alexiuc’s photo – Courtesy of LRoS
About the Author
Tabish has been writing/editing professionally for over a decade. Louisiana Department of Education taught one of his articles to students of its career diploma course 'Film in America' after adding the article in its comprehensive curriculum. Tabish is the Publishing Editor for CoinReport and believes Bitcoin has a great future. Follow Tabish on Twitter @mdtabish
Previous Story
Fluent wins Solution Showcase at 26th BAFT Annual Conference on International Trade
Next Story
Shopawl adds AliExpress to stores list
Related Posts
Bitcoin conference laBITconf to be held on Nov. 4-5
Dash teams up with global compliance provider Coinfirm
Apple approves steem, lisk, digicash on App Store
Shopawl accepting ETH, LTC, DOGE, DASH; teenage CEO offers only 1% fee to readers
Leave a Reply
Name
*
Email
*
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
DAILY NEWS UPDATES
Enter your email address to subscribe to CoinReport and receive latest news notifications in email.
Email Address
FREE EBOOK
Bitcoin (BTC) 738.54 USD ↓
Bitcoin (BTC) 700.48 EUR ↓
Bitcoin (BTC) 5192.15 CNY ↓
Litecoin (LTC) 3.9 USD ↓
Updated 26 November 2016 01:22:03 UTC+0:00
Powered by Cryptonator
RECENT NEWS
Fluent, now Hijro, announces blockchain trade asset marketplace
Posted On21 Nov 2016
PwC launches digital asset services
Posted On20 Nov 2016
Blockchain may increase money laundering risk, warns Hong Kong central bank
Posted On13 Nov 2016
Shopawl adds AliExpress to stores list
Posted On13 Nov 2016
Fluent wins Solution Showcase at 26th BAFT Annual Conference on International Trade
Posted On06 Nov 2016
CoinAgenda announces winners of startup competition
Posted On04 Nov 2016
ShapeShift announces Zcash integration
Posted On04 Nov 2016
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK
Online Privacy Policy Agreement Copyright 2014 CoinReport. All rights reserved. Terms of Service