http://www.coindesk.com/press-releases/blockchain-intelligence-group-big-presents-investigating-blockchain-cognizant-hosted-blockchain-cryptocurrency-aml-event/
Blockchain Intelligence Group (“BIG”) Presents “Investigating the Blockchain” at the Cognizant Hosted Blockchain, Cryptocurrency and AML Event - Press Release
TRENDING
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BITCOIN PRICE INDEX (24H)
Created with Highstock 1.3.7
$730
$734
$739
USD -0.09%
$737.65
CNY 0.14%
¥5,191.89
EUR €696.26
GBP £590.96
NEWS
–
PRICE & DATA
–
GUIDES
–
EVENTS
RESEARCH
PRESS RELEASES
Blockchain Intelligence Group (“BIG”) Presents “Investigating the Blockchain” at the Cognizant Hosted Blockchain, Cryptocurrency and AML Event
Source: Blockchain Intelligence Group
PRESS RELEASE
12
17
CA, October 27, 2016 at 20:25 GMT
Blockchain Intelligence Group (“BIG”) Presents “Investigating the Blockchain” at the Cognizant Hosted Blockchain, Cryptocurrency and AML Event
VANCOUVER, BC – October 26, 2016  -   Blockchain Intelligence Group (“BIG”) today announces that it had been invited to present at the Blockchain, Cryptocurrency and AML conference hosted by Cognizant on August 25, 2016 . The theme of the event was on the use of Bitcoin and the Blockchain in criminal activities on the  dark web, as well as the regulatory requirements for the Fintech sector, specifically; AML, KYC and OFAC. The focus of the discussion pertained to the laws and regulations concerning Bitcoin and the efforts to define and understand the cryptocurrency ecosystem. This new, unique and unfamiliar use of virtual currencies creates a challenging environment for governments, banks, law enforcement and regulators around the world who are unsure how to deal with this payment method.
Shone Anstey, President and Founder of Blockchain Intelligence Group presented “Investigating the Blockchain”. Through its proprietary Blockchain technology software Qualitative Law Enforcement Unified Edge known as QLUE. Shone had illustrated how BIG's technology is working to incorporate various techniques and advanced search algorithms to detect suspicious activity within Bitcoin transactions using various proprietary methods under BIG’s own Bitcoin Blockchain Law Enforcement Analytics Platform. Shone noted, “We would like to thank Cognizant for the invitation and for hosting the event. We believe the event was very timely given the recent exchange hacks and the ever-growing use of bitcoin as a medium of transactions. It was a great venue for Blockchain Intelligence Group to exhibit its proprietary law enforcement tools and to meet some of the actors who may be using them in the future.”
About Blockchain Intelligence Group
Blockchain Intelligence Group is headquartered in Vancouver, BC, Canada. As a developer of Blockchain technology solutions, search and data analytics, BIG's propriety platform will globally target governments and Fortune 1000 companies that operate in the finance, and e-commerce sectors.
For more information visit: www.blockchaingroup.io
Blockchain Intelligence Group
Lance Morginn
CEO & Director
D: 1-778-819-8702
email: lance@blockchaingroup.io
  Shone Anstey
President & CTO
D: 1-778-819-8703
email: shone@blockchaingroup.io
  Forward-Looking Statements:
Certain statements in this release are forward-looking statements, which include completion of the search technology software and other matters. Forward-looking statements consist of statements that are not purely historical, including any statements regarding beliefs, plans, expectations or intentions regarding the future. Such information can generally be identified by the use of forwarding-looking wording such as “may”, “expect”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “believe” and “continue” or the negative thereof or similar variations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, as there can be no assurance that the plans, intentions or expectations upon which they are based will occur. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve numerous assumptions, known and unknown risks and uncertainties, both general and specific that contribute to the possibility that the predictions, estimates, forecasts, projections and other forward-looking statements will not occur. These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, among other things, the state of the economy in general and capital markets in particular, the effectiveness of the technologies, regulatory uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of BIG. Forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking information because BIG can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the BIG’s expectations include, consumer sentiment towards BIG’s products and Blockchain technology generally, litigation, technology failures, competition, and failure of counterparties to perform their contractual obligations.
  The forward-looking statements contained in this press release are made as of the date of this press release. Except as required by law, BIG disclaims any intention and assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additionally, BIG undertakes no obligation to comment on the expectations of, or statements made by, third parties in respect of the matters discussed above. There can be no assurance that forward-looking information, or the material factors or assumptions used to develop such forward looking information, will prove to be accurate.
  www.blockchaingroup.io
The publication of a press release on this page should not be viewed as an endorsement by CoinDesk. Customers should do their own research before investing funds in any company.
Press Contact
Name
Anthony Zelen
Email address
anthony@blockchaingroup.io
Phone number
7783885258
12
17
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact