http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/11/18/bitcoin-price-technical-analysis-11182016-joining-bulls/
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/18/2016 - Joining the Bulls? - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
04:36 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/18/2016 – Joining the Bulls?
Author
Sarah Jenn
Categories
Analysis, Bitcoin
40



Bitcoin price is retreating upon reaching its yearly highs but bulls could be ready for another push higher after this pullback.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Bitcoin Price Key Highlights
Bitcoin price reached the yearly highs around $780 and profit-taking happened as predicted in the previous article.
Price is now making a pullback from its recent rally and could encounter more bulls who are waiting at the next area of interest.
Technical indicators are confirming that the uptrend could resume once the correction is completed.
Bitcoin price is retreating upon reaching its yearly highs but bulls could be ready for another push higher after this pullback.
Technical Indicators Signals
The 100 SMA just crossed above the longer-term 200 SMA to indicate that the path of least resistance is to the upside. The gap between the moving averages is widening, which means that bullish pressure is getting stronger and that bitcoin price could revisit its recent highs sooner or later.
Stochastic is turning higher from the oversold area, also to indicate that profit-taking might be over and that buyers could return to the game. RSI is also starting to bottom out so price could follow suit. However, a larger pullback to the broken resistance around $720-735 could encounter more bulls waiting with their long orders.
Market Events
Yellen’s hawkish speech in front of the Joint Economic Committee confirmed that a December Fed rate hike is in the bag. This led to strong gains for the US dollar across the board, although this sentiment may have long been priced in already so there might not be much more gains for the US currency.
With that, the pickup in risk sentiment could favor bitcoin price once more, as traders move closer to booking profits off their long USD positions towards the end of the year. In her testimony, Yellen cautioned that increased fiscal stimulus could run the risk of overheating the US economy, especially since it is already nearing full employment. Still, she added that the Fed stands ready to make adjustments if necessary.
Data from the US economy has been mostly stronger than expected and the remaining event risk might be the US NFP report. As for bitcoin, renewed interest from Chinese investors on a weakening yuan has been keeping the cryptocurrency supported.
Charts from SimpleFX
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
40
PUBLISHED BY
Sarah Jenn
Sarah has been involved in the cryptocurrency space since the very beginning. Having stumbled across well hidden discussions in early forums she immersed herself in the industry, and is now a leading author and consultant for a range of bitcoin companies. She loves DASH and mathematics. View all posts by Sarah Jenn
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.