http://www.newsbtc.com/2016/10/16/electrum-x-newer-much-faster-variant-electrum-server/
Electrum X Is the Newer, Much Faster Variant of Electrum Server - NEWSBTC
25-11-2016
10:18 pm
      BTC
      LTC
      USD
      EUR
      GBP
      CNY
      JPY
      =
      USD
      GBP
      EUR
      JPY
      CNY
      BTC
      LTC
      sponsored by SimpleFX
LATEST NEWS
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Japan's Mitsui Sumitomo Introduces New Bitcoin Insurance
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Wasteland Of Volume
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Bitcoin Price Watch; Thanksgiving Volatility
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
NEWS
ANALYSIS
CHARTS
EDUCATION
BROKERS
CASINOS
EVENTS
ADVERTISE
PR PLANS
SUBMIT PR
Electrum X Is the Newer, Much Faster Variant of Electrum Server
Author
Gautham
Categories
Bitcoin News, Blockchain Technology, News
25



Developer Neil Booth has created his own version of Electrum Server called Electrum X, which is 10 times faster and more efficient. Read more...
A much faster version of Electrum Server is now available. The reimplementation of Electrum Server, called Electrum X is the creation of Neil Booth which he claims to be 10 times faster than the Electrum Server.
The Electrum X Server codes are made available on GitHub under the MIT License.  While the main server is built on Python 2, the new reimplementation makes use of much advanced Python 3.4 and still manages to work with the existing clients. By using Python 3.4, Neil leverages upon the asyncio feature for a better client implementation.  The Electrum X Server is not just compatible with Bitcoin but also with other altcoins which share similarities with Bitcoin protocol. A custom codebase has been set in place to ensure compatibility.
While the Electrum server database is huge, with over 35 GB worth of data, the new system is much more compact and efficient. According to Neil, the Electrum X server is more aggressive when it comes to caching and batching DB writes. In addition, it also offers a much compact representation of the UTXOs, map address index and even the history. The compression of data on Electrum X is facilitated by the pruning feature that just stores the transaction hashes in a linear array instead of storing full transaction hashes and heights.
The Electrum X is not a finished product at the moment, but more of a prototype. The indexing system for append only- metadata makes use of the actual position of the data on the disk instead of levelDB. All these new features, derived from the latest Python language also offers an option to minimize the requirement of computation power and memory.
Neil still has few plans for further development of Electrum X. According to his roadmap, the server will undergo few more performance improvements. These improvements include blockchain reorgs, handling client connections and shifting certain functionalities to C or C++ platform.
In the coming days, he also intends to include DoS protection to ensure Electrum X’s security. While he has proven that the new system is much more advanced and efficient than the previous one, it is to be seen whether Electrum developers learn something from this and adopt some of the features into their offering as well.
Ref: Electrum X on GitHub | Image: Electrum.org
25
PUBLISHED BY
Gautham
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
NEWSBTC - EDITOR'S PICKS
Brokers
Casinos
1
Review Trade Now
2
Review Trade Now
3
Review Trade Now
4
Review Trade Now
5
Review Trade Now
FEATURED PRESS RELEASES
Nov 21 | 12:00
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Nov 17 | 12:25
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
Nov 16 | 20:26
Darcrus: Decentralizing the Business World
Nov 16 | 13:05
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
Nov 14 | 13:30
A Better Ethereum Wallet for Investors
VIEW MORE
SUBMIT PR
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Ⓒ Copyright 2016 NEWSBTC. All Rights Reserved
About
Team
Business Listing
T & C
Bitcoin Forum
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Franchise
Sitemap
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
×