http://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/interview/how-blockchain-and-bitcoin-can-prevent-a-rigged-election/
How Blockchain and Bitcoin Can Prevent a Hacked Election | Finance Magnates
About
Newsletter
English
My Area




News
Intelligence
Events
Directory
Thought Leadership
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyInterviewsHow Blockchain and Bitcoin Can Prevent a Hacked Election
How Blockchain and Bitcoin Can Prevent a Hacked Election
Security expert Darin Stanchfield talks about how a decentralized system can prevent hackers from manipulating the vote.
Avi Mizrahi | Interviews (CryptoCurrency) | Monday, 07/11/2016|18:10 GMT
0
0
Photo: Bloomberg
As the US is about to start one of the most critical presidential elections modern history, many are concerned with the security of the system. Whether it is Edward Snowden tweeting about hacking the official vote count, Donald Trump complaining about a rigged system or Democrats warning that a Russian cyber attack could manipulate the process, the concern is widespread and bipartisan.
We asked security expert Darin Stanchfield, CEO of KeepKey, a Seattle-based company that builds a secure digital hardware wallet for bitcoin and other crypto assets, how blockchain technology can heighten security and protect the voting system from attacks.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
“In today’s global information environment, where the threats of coordinated hacks are pervasive, we should take all security concerns seriously. These types of threats are real and actively happening. The main problem is that effective digital security is a constantly moving goal post.
Darin Stanchfield, CEO, KeepKey
We need to understand that now, more than ever, any system is at risk of being hacked. The Blockchain does, however, provide innovations that current systems could embrace. The immutable nature of the blockchain means that if used in an election system, once a vote is cast it cannot be manipulated. The blockchain would also provide an audit trail for election results. And finally, using a public Blockchain like Bitcoin would mean the entire system was decentralized with no single point of failure for attackers to target.
KeepKey does three things that could improve current election systems. First, KeepKey protocol uses secure offline hardware to protect sensitive data (for bitcoin and digital assets, this data is a private key). Humans have not yet mastered the security of electrons moving over wires: offline hardware removes this vulnerability.
The second improvement: KeepKey authenticates its user to manipulate this sensitive data. This is very much like having a personal notary overseeing each transaction, governed by the rules of cryptography and math.
And finally, KeepKey is open source. If code is not transparent or open for review, one may never know what secrets lurk under the hood. To contrast, current election systems are networked. They do little to authenticate those casting votes. Finally, these systems are typically closed and not easily reviewable by security researchers or the public at large.”
Got a news tip? Let Us Know
FOUND A MISTAKE? LET US KNOW
Tags: blockchain technology
How do you feel about the article?
Educated
Surprised
Intrigued
Indifferent
Annoyed
Discuss the Article
Share your thoughts
I agree to the Terms of Use
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
You can also subscribe without commenting.
ALL FM NEWS
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 10 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 12 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 12 hours
MOST POPULAR
Day | week
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime
RELATED ARTICLES
The IRS Must Adapt to Cryptocurrency Not Accuse Bitcoin Users of Tax Avoidance
As Morgan Stanley Leaves R3 Questions Arise about its Value and Commerciality
The Government of India Should Support Bitcoin to Create a Cashless Society
DIRECTORY CATEGORIES
Social Trading
28
Wealth Management
26
Physical Precious Metal
6
Forex Brokers
343
Binary Option Brokers
116
Marketing Agencies
30
Affiliate Programs
58
Affiliate Software
7
Regulation Consulting
20
Tool Providers
49
Mobile Developers
20
Platforms
127
Industry Websites
212
Regulators
50
Telecom
6
KYC
1
White Label Solutions
30
Industry Start Ups
12
Lawyers & Incorporation
13
Translation Services
9
Risk Management
11
Liquidity Provider
29
Platform Providers
70
MT4/MT5 Bridge Providers
34
Development Firms
80
Binary Software Providers
16
Payment Processors
46
Industry Executives
272
Keep in touch with us
Content Channels
Retail FX
Institutional FX
Binary Options
Executives
CryptoCurrency
FinTech
About
Overview
Careers
Contact
Advertise with us
Services
Directory
Intelligence
Events
About
Website
Newsletter intro
Terms and Conditions : Finance Magnates
Cookies policies
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions