http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/reuters/article-3888682/New-Yorks-bitcoin-hub-dreams-fade-licensing-backlog.html
New York's bitcoin hub dreams fade with licensing backlog | Daily Mail Online
  Home
News
U.S.
Sport
TV&Showbiz
Australia
Femail
Health
Science
Money
Video
Travel
Fashion Finder
Wires Home
Login
DailyMail
Saturday, Nov 26th 2016 1AM  17°C
4AM  17°C
5-Day Forecast
New York's bitcoin hub dreams fade with licensing backlog
By REUTERS
PUBLISHED: 05:05 GMT, 31 October 2016 | UPDATED: 05:05 GMT, 31 October 2016
By Suzanne Barlyn
NEW YORK, Oct 31 (Reuters) - New York's financial regulator had sights set on becoming a global hub for innovations like bitcoin when it adopted trailblazing virtual currency rules last year. But the state lost that momentum when the agency's chief left, putting a licensing process in limbo and allowing rivals to catch up.
Since June 2015, New York has required virtual currency firms doing business there to get a "BitLicense" to hold customer funds and exchange virtual coins for dollars and other regular currencies.
Benjamin Lawsky headed the Department of Financial Services (DFS) when it developed those rules, acting as an early advocate of virtual currencies when other regulators were still skeptical.
Although it remains unclear whether such currencies will ever gain mainstream acceptance, they are now part of a broader, rapidly-growing industry that blends finance and technology, and which leading financial centers are keen to attract.
For companies, a stamp of approval from a tough regulator offered a chance to win over customers who remained dubious about the product. For New York, it was an opportunity to get ahead of rivals around the world that were also trying to woo "fintech" business.
Yet just after the regulations came into force, Lawsky left the agency. Some senior staffers with BitLicense expertise soon followed him out the door.
Since then, DFS has issued just two BitLicenses. Another 15 applications are still pending, with four others withdrawn and four denied, a spokesman said. Two more virtual currency companies have received trust charters, which treat them more like traditional banks.
"By putting the regulations together and having key staff members leaving almost thereafter, they really put the industry behind the eight-ball in terms of competing with traditional service providers," said Patrick Murck, a lawyer and fellow at Harvard University's Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society.
Most companies that were operating in New York when the regulations took effect can still do business there while waiting for a license. However, start-ups may face trouble raising money or expanding their business, Murck said.
The virtual-currency industry is miniscule compared to traditional finance, but it has grown rapidly since bitcoin's launch in 2009. There are now other virtual currencies, and broader uses for underlying technologies that create and distribute them. (Graphic: http://reut.rs/1XVt1gH)
The bitcoin market is now worth about $10.7 billion, compared to less than $1 billion just three years ago, according to the information site CoinDesk.
LIGHT VS TOUGH
As the market has grown, financial centers around the world have competed aggressively to attract new business. While some have relied on light-touch regulation, the appeal of New York's BitLicense was that it offered a clear legal framework.
However, the slow licensing process and strict requirements are driving some companies away.
An application costs $5,000 to file, and once completed, can run 500 pages - including everything from compliance manuals to executives' fingerprints, lawyers said. Regulators then drill deeper, asking for details of business models, organizational charts or ownership information.
BitLicense forces companies to "extract personal, private information" from users, creating a target for hackers, Erik Voorhees, chief executive of Switzerland-based virtual currency firm ShapeShift.io, said in an interview, explaining the company's decision not to do business in New York.
GoCoin CEO Steve Beauregard told Reuters securing a New York license was not worth the effort: "It's too overreaching and burdensome, especially for the smaller companies," he said.
Marco Santori, who heads the digital currency practice of law firm Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP, said at least 15 firms were shunning New York. He has advised clients to focus on states like California, where, he believes, regulators are unlikely to take aim at digital currency companies any time soon. State lawmakers there recently withdrew a second proposal to regulate digital currency companies.
Other states are developing rules and awarding licenses at a faster clip.
Washington State, for example, has issued seven licenses to virtual currency companies since 2013 under its longstanding law for money transfer businesses. North Carolina has licensed two. A uniform virtual currency law that any state can opt into is also in the works, and there has been talk of a possible federal charter.
Internationally, some countries, like Japan, have moved to regulate aspects of digital currency trading, while others, like Bolivia, have banned it. Still others have sought to adapt tax policies and existing laws on money laundering and other illicit activity to the new market. The BitLicense, however, remains a unique approach.
In September, Deloitte ranked New York City No. 3 as a financial-technology destination more broadly, behind London and Singapore.
People familiar with the BitLicense process say the delay in appointing Lawsky's successor sapped some of the momentum.
The new superintendent, Maria Vullo, who took over in June 2016, told Reuters in an interview DFS is striving to clear the application backlog. The reviews had to be thorough, though, because of the risks involved, she said.
New York introduced its BitLicense after the collapse of Mt. Gox, a Tokyo-based exchange that lost an estimated $560 million worth of customers' bitcoins.
"It's not a video game," she said. "It involves real money and taking deposits."
Jerry Brito, executive director of Coin Center, a digital currency research and advocacy group in Washington, said the BitLicense's roll-out did not live up to its promise. Still, New York's leverage as a world financial center would make it hard for companies that want to grow to shun this market, he said.
"I think it's going to be rare that companies say, 'We're not going to do business in New York.'"
(Reporting by Suzanne Barlyn; Editing by Lauren Tara LaCapra and Tomasz Janowski)
Share or comment on this article
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Site Web
Like
Daily Mail
Follow
@MailOnline
Follow
Daily Mail
+1
Daily Mail
    DON'T MISS
'It should've been you!': Adam Thomas lashes out at Martin Roberts as he tells the star he deserved to be evicted before Danny Baker on I'm A Celeb
'£1,500-a-month and free takeaways': Gogglebox earnings revealed... as show's star Scarlett Moffatt claims she's paid off her parents' mortgage
'Pregnant' Cheryl conceals her figure in a loose black jumper for Who Do You Think You Are... as Brian Friedman 'confirms she is having a baby' with Liam Payne
No Blurred Lines here! Emily Ratajkowski leaves NOTHING to the imagination as she poses completely nude in her most explicit photoshoot ever
Illuminated Santas, thousands of LEDs and an entire flock of glowing reindeer: 10 of the most OTT Christmas lights displays
SPONSORED
Ed Balls reveals he has formed a 'deep' and 'intense' relationship with his glamorous Strictly dance partner Katya Jones 
Welcome to the business, baby! Dream Kardashian advertises Christmas socks from dad Rob's new collection  
That's a big pom pom
Moving out: Lindsay Lohan leaves her London home after bailiff dispute and heads for £400-a-night hotel (before a beach break in Bali) 
No Photoshop needed! Mariah Carey pictured shopping in Hawaii amid photo editing controversy
Very provocative
Kylie Jenner serves up another selfie and a few cooking tips while preparing breakfast the day after Thanksgiving
Calorific
I'm A Celeb's Carol Vorderman mistakenly GROPED by Larry Lamb... after being left red-faced over nipple tassel revelation
Guilty as charged! Strictly's Judge Rinder puts on a very passionate display with dance pro Oksana Platero during steamy rehearsal
Puppy love! CBB's Chloe Khan and new flame Ashley Cain sport matching tracksuits as they walk their cute bulldogs in Liverpool
'Single life got you like...the 3 amigos!' Perrie Edwards confirms Jesy Nelson split from fiancé Jake Roche in revealing Snapchat video 
From buying magnums to getting a Brazilian blow dry, 18 clever Christmas hacks to buy you more time so you can actually ENJOY it this year!
SPONSORED
'I need some GC loving!' TOWIE's Jon Clark gets some TLC from his number one fan Gemma Collins after breaking his coccyx in ice-skating accident
Lisa Snowdon and Scarlett Moffatt win a royal banquet after hilariously messy I'm A Celeb task... but are told off for attempting to smuggle back food
'She was a bit geeky': Scarlett Moffatt's parents hit back at I'm A Celebrity bullying claims as they reveal she herself was once a victim
Chantelle Connelly goes low-key in skintight jeans for drinks with pals in Manchester... after her EXPLOSIVE Geordie Shore exit
Baby love! Jessica Simpson shares sweet flashback photo of husband Eric hugging her bump before she gave birth to son Ace
The 36-year-old shared an intimate flashback
Liam Payne's fans go into meltdown as the 'daddy-to-be' posts a smouldering shirtless snap... after Brian Friedman 'confirmed Cheryl's pregnancy'
Wild thing! Mad Max star Courtney Eaton stuns in animal inspired outfit including faux fur coat and leopard print top at Airbnb event Los Angeles
She can't resist a bargain! Lady Gaga and her mum hit the sales during Black Friday in New York
Melted into the crowd when she went shopping
Olivia Newton-John's daughter Chloe Lattanzi is shaken after witnessing a horrific car crash while visiting a coffee shop after moving to live with her father
That was fast! Blac Chyna flashes her trim tummy on Instagram just TWO WEEKS after giving birth to Dream
The 28-year-old is already getting her pre-baby body back
'I'm not surprised!': Danny Baker beams as he is the first star to be voted out of I'm A Celeb... before backing Scarlett Moffatt to win the show
It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas! Coco Austin and Britney Spears show off their festive trees as the stars prep for the holidays
Laura Whitmore looks chic in all-black outfit at theatre bash as she brushes aside Strictly drama with ex-partner Giovanni Pernice
Seemed in high spirits
'Worst photoshopping I've seen': Fans slam Mariah Carey for MAJOR photo fail as she flaunts her ample assets in Thanksgiving selfie
SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Blonde Helena Bonham Carter ditches her goth mop
The 50-year-old actress has been in New York filming Ocean's Eight
'That f**king kills!' Geordie Shore hunk Aaron Chalmers rushed to hospital after swimming pool dive goes awry in Ayia Napa
Bright star! Solange Knowles shines in silky orange dress as she lounges on a yacht with family for Thanksgiving
Peek-a-boo! Chloe Goodman shows off her ample cleavage in a VERY revealing keyhole jumpsuit for night on the town
Not for the faint-hearted
Vicky Pattison puts on a busty display in low-cut maxi dress as she enjoys a romantic stroll with new man John Noble in Australia
All loved up
She's flying high! Gwen Stefani takes kids for helicopter ride after spending Thanksgiving with Blake Shelton
Very camo
Hold on tight! Kate Hudson clings to her floaty high-cut dress on blustery outing with Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell
Blonde bombshell 
'We really tried!' Britney Spears and her sons attempt the Mannequin Challenge on a 'shaky plane' after celebrating Thanksgiving together
Touching very touching
Hats off to him! Zayn Malik beats Tom Hiddleston to be crowned GQ's best-dressed 2017 male
Best from A to Z
Red hot Jessica Chastain hits Today Show to talk about her new political drama Miss Sloane 
Wore a little red dress very well
She can sing too! Scarlett Johansson rocks out in latest song Set It All Free for her upcoming animated musical
She is so talented
Suits you! Bond girl Naomie Harris goes business chic in navy suit as she opens beauty college in London
The British actress, 40, looked chic
'If the public want us, we'll keep coming back:' Defiant Ed Balls insists he is unruffled by backlash about his place on Strictly Come Dancing
'I know how it feels to be scared': Rita Ora defends Justin Bieber after he 'punched' teen as she claims fan 'crossed the line'
Very scary apparently
'I love you my son': Pregnant Stephanie Davis captures her baby kicking as she shares video of her sizable bump
Adorable clip
Charlotte Dawson shows off legs in a barely-there camouflage swimsuit after revealing 'relationship' with Jemma Lucy
Tension in the family? Khloe Kardashian skips Kylie Jenner's Thanksgiving dinner to celebrate with new beau Tristan Thompson
Why could that be?
Nicole Scherzinger tucks into a tasty pumpkin pie as she flaunts her killer figure in daring sheer top at X Factor rehearsals
Taut stomach
'I passed out before dinner last night': Chrissy Teigen reveals she spent all day cooking but ended up in bed before the big Thanksgiving meal
Bottoms up! Sara Sampaio shows off her incredible bikini body and flashing her pert derriere in a very sexy 'belfie' during beach break
Geordie Shore new boy Dan Clark 'removed from filming' amid claims he sent texts which 'threatened to throw acid in his ex-girlfriend's face'
Pregnant Rochelle Humes cradles her blossoming baby bump in a figure-hugging little black dress with a quirky fishtail hem
Lewis Bloor hints he's split from Marnie Simpson and unfollows her on Twitter amid claims she was 'flirting with ex Aaron Chalmers'
Former Made In Chelsea star Ashley James cuts a casual figure in a loose grey T-shirt and trainers as she arrives at London radio studios
Kanye and Kim 'in turmoil' after blowing $10m on their home... amid reports the cause of his breakdown was deeper than 'sleep deprivation'
Joanna Krupa swaps beach fun for Chicago's winter wonderland on romantic trip with husband 
The 37-year-old model kept warm in a jacket
Newly engaged Pixie Lott looks windswept in skimpy plaid bralette as she cosies up to shirtless fiancé Oliver Cheshire during Jamaican getaway
'He likes my bigger boobs': Pregnant Rochelle Humes says husband Marvin loves her new body and says he is 'convinced they are having a boy'
Pregnant Billie Faiers celebrates her six month blossoming baby bump with saucy selfie in tiny underwear during her Maldives getaway 
Blooming lovely
'An amazing partner who is an amazing actor': Marion Cotillard gushes of co-star Brad Pitt and his 'determination' on set of Allied
Rock chick cutie! Tamara Ecclestone's daughter Sophia, two, is the trendiest of tots in a designer leather biker jacket as they go Christmas shopping
'That was the thing at the time': Rapper Nelly FINALLY explains why Kelly Rowland tried to text him using excel spreadsheet in Dilemma music video
TOWIE's Frankie Essex flashes her toned tum in a sporty crop top after 2st weight-loss
The former TOWIE star, 28, headed to her local park in Loughton, Essex
Rock bottom! Things get messy and claustrophobic for Lisa Snowdon and Adam Thomas as they face the Gates Of Hell on I'm A Celeb...
'It was like a punch in the gut': GBBO's Nadiya is devastated to learn the woman who taught her to bake actually 'hated' cooking
Feeling the heat
'If I was in camp, I'd probably want to smash his face in': James Jordan says he's no fan of I'm A Celeb's Martin Roberts... as he praises 'jungle warrior' wife Ola
'It breaks my heart': Rita Simons reveals sadness at leaving EastEnders for good when character Roxy Mitchell is killed off in explosive episode
Reality star Jon Clark is rushed to hospital after a dramatic tumble at an ice skating rink while filming the TOWIE festive special
Serious fall from grace
Kathy Griffin brands 'rude' Ashton Kutcher a 'd-bag' for ignoring her while co-hosting a charity event
Spilled the behind-the-scenes details
Jess Impiazzi sizzles in vibrant multi-coloured bikini as she flaunts enviably toned tum during Australian getaway with mum Debbie
PICTURED: Geordie Shore's Marnie Simpson leaves hospital following emergency treatment... days after epic meltdown outside nightclub 
Geordie Phwoar! Chloe Ferry flaunts her curves in thigh-skimming mini as films new MTV series in Newcastle
Another wild night out on the town
'She called me after Paris': Psychic Jayne Wallace claims Kim Kardashian contacted her for a reading following armed robbery ordeal
Kendall Jenner shows off plump pout at Thanksgiving dinner with Caitlyn and the Kardashians... after Kylie denied her sister has had lip fillers
Former TOWIE star Pascal Craymer shows off her ample assets in very sexy cut-out pink bikini as she frolics on the beach in Barcelona
She's tickled pink
'Never mind a Pearly King - you're a Proper King!' Viewers brand Danny Dyer's Who Do You Think You Are? episode 'best ever' over royalty revelation
Sweet treats, secret recipes and (of course) dozens of turkeys! Celebs show off their culinary creations for Thanksgiving... but who has the best spread?
Vogue Williams parties in a leather ensemble days after 'going public' with Laurence Fox... as his ex Billie Piper hits the town on same night
Didn't cross paths
Justin Bieber's ex-fling Sahara Ray poses TOPLESS in a pair of tiny bikini bottoms... after THAT skinny dipping session in Hawaii with pop star
'Hello, snuggle bunny': Kym Marsh packs on the PDA with her OAP 'boyfriend' - but it's all in the name of comedy for ITV comedy Off Their Rockers
'Tanorexic' Andy Cohen was diagnosed with skin cancer and praises Kelly Ripa for pressuring him to see a doctor after spotting a black dot
'Nobody will ask me out!' Betty White says men are still a favourite 'hobby' but admits dating is tough at 94
Looking good for her age
Battle of the booty! Kim Kardashian and sister Khloe roll around in dirt for Yeezy fashion shoot helmed by Kanye West
Cheeky siblings
'He may be annoying, but this is bullying': I'm A Celebrity viewers are divided by the treatment of Martin Roberts as the campmates turn on him
Riling his campmates
A jolly good sport! Prince Harry joins the locals for a spot of cricket in St Lucia - and onlookers say he's on 'top form' 
Wowing the crowds
'You have inflated, no doubt about it': Eamonn Holmes shocks wife Ruth Langsford as he tells her she has put on weight ahead of fitness segment
Myleene Klass holds hands with hunky beau Simon Motson after enjoying a glamorous date night at Global's Make Some Noise gala
All loved up
'Our glory days!': Little Mix score first number one album and break records to become the quickest selling UK girl group
That's an eyeful! Big Brother's Lisa Appleton attempts to keep her modest intact as she slips into TINY black bikini while she gets playful with a pal
Jake has got a type! TOWIE's Chloe Lewis comes face to face with her doppelganger love rival Missé Beqiri at star-studded ITV Gala
Spitting image
Here comes the groom? Pat Phelan and Eileen Grimshaw set for Coronation Street wedding - but will the bride be left in tears? 
Wedding bells or not?
As cute as a Button! Jenson can't keep his eyes off his leggy model girlfriend Brittny Ward ahead of final Formula One race at Abu Dhabi Grand Prix
'We are all so proud of Michael for having a penis shaped like a dog!' Kate Beckinsale jokes in snap of her ex Sheen with Sarah Silverman and daughter Lily
'Explicit clip' of Charmed actress Rose McGowan appears online as she becomes 'latest celebrity victim of sex tape leak'
Intimate footage leaked
'She's not someone to tear other people down': Scarlett Moffatt's mum comes to her daughter's defence amid 'bullying' claims during her I'm A Celebrity stint
Have some R-E-S-P-E-C-T! Aretha Franklin sings a rousing five-minute US anthem at Thanksgiving football game... but fans become impatient for the kickoff 
Still going strong! Orlando Bloom spends Thanksgiving with Katy Perry and her family as they wear matching pyjamas after THOSE split rumours 
'I feel incredibly blessed': Ivanka Trump shares Thanksgiving message with husband Jared and the kids as Donald celebrates in Mar-a-Lago
Katie Price looks worse for wear as she stumbles home from fun-filled ITV Gala... after packing on PDA with hubby Kieran Hayler on the red carpet
'You're only ever gonna outrun me if someone yells DINNER': Usain Bolt runs circles around James Corden in epic Drop the Mic rap battle
Tyga 'pays off $200k jewellery debt after being slapped with a lawsuit... as he saves girlfriend Kylie Jenner from facing a financial grilling'
Ferne McTAN! TV star exhibits visible bikini strap lines in a figure-hugging bandeau LBD as she hosts beauty awards
Mark of a good holiday
Battle of the boobs! Elliott Wright's fianceé Sadie Stuart and ex Chloe Sims compete as they hit the ITV Gala red carpet in cleavage-baring gowns 
Ellie Goulding rocks a leather mini and semi-sheer top as she steps out for the first time since explosive run-in with a fellow guest at A-list bash
Something to smile about? Giggling Rocco Ritchie, 16, is seen for the first time since cannabis arrest was revealed... as he cosies up to girlfriend Kim
BFFs Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield embrace with a warm hug as they enjoy a night out at star-studded ITV Gala
Can't get enough
'Is Martin Roberts sending secret messages via sign language?' Fans left puzzled by I'm A Celeb star's strange hand movements
Ola Jordan flaunts her phenomenal figure in the I'm A Celeb jungle shower ... after her husband claimed she can 'look at food and put on weight'
'He was at the peak of his masculinity': Lady C discusses her romance with I'm A Celebrity star Larry Lamb... as she slams Duncan Bannatyne's behaviour 
From the true crimes that inspired them to their trickiest plot twists, the brothers behind The Missing reveal all behind TV's most addictive whodunnit
Little Mix's Perrie Edwards is 'dating Arsenal footballer Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain'... as she hits the stage in Italy wearing his team colours
Professor Green confirms his romance with model Fae Williams in first flirty PDA as they leave fashion bash holding hands following claims 'he's smitten'
Jacqueline Jossa looks sensational in sexy LBD as she cosies up to fiancé Dan Osborne at beauty awards... after hitting back over weight jibes
Golden girl: Fearne Cotton flashes her lithe legs in a glitzy sequin leopard print mini-dress as she dazzles at the ITV Gala 
TV's golden girl
ITV's golden girls Holly Willoughby, Susanna Reid and Laura Whitmore lead the glamour as they storm the pink carpet at star-studded television gala
Braless Kady McDermott leaves little to the imagination while fellow Love Island star Olivia Buckland opts for glittering gown at ITV Gala
EXCLUSIVE: 'We've had nice feedback' Emma Bunton confirms leaked GEM single IS real and reveals Geri Horner's pregnancy is going 'brilliantly'
Florence Henderson dies aged 82: Beloved actress and TV icon who was The Brady Bunch's mum passes away on Thanksgiving 
Played Carol Brady
Gwyneth Paltrow whips up stuffing for Thanksgiving as she reveals she 'could not be more grateful' for boyfriend Brad Falchuk and ex Chris Martin
Sealed with a kiss! Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton share a sweet smooch as they celebrate Thanksgiving with both of their families
I'm thankful for my selfies! Kylie Jenner poses up a storm before hosting Thanksgiving dinner for the Kardashian clan 
In her element
'Thankful for piggy back rides': Taylor Swift spends Thanksgiving with her squad at Rhode Island beach house... before trying Mannequin Challenge
Sofia Vergara and Joe Manganiello wear silly turkey hats while Eva Longoria gets hands-on in the kitchen as stars share Thanksgiving snaps
They Shore are wet 'n' wild!  Geordie's Chloe Ferry strips off as cast enjoy oily frolicking session following raucous Kavos night out
Slip and slide 
Liam Payne teams up with Ordinary Boys star Preston for new music... after X Factor's Brian Friedman appears to confirm Cheryl's 'pregnancy'
'Newly-single' Jesy Nelson is full of feisty spirit in leather hotpants as she joins Little Mix onstage at X Factor Italia... after Jake Roche split
'I've fought the fight of not being enough': Selena Gomez returns to Instagram with moving Thanksgiving post after three month break
Strictly siren Laura Whitmore puts drama with ex-partner Giovanni Pernice to one side as she returns to the red carpet in a slinky scarlet gown
Kate Wright cuts a very busty figure in low-cut burgundy dress as she joins glamorous TOWIE girls including Danielle Armstrong at ITV Gala
Kylie Jenner, eat your heart out! Tyga's rumoured ex Demi Rose goes COMPLETELY underwear-free in a see-through dress for beauty awards
TOWIE beauty Megan McKenna flashes her cleavage in a sultry keyhole cutout dress as she attends beauty awards bash
Striking look
Casablanca it ain't - and Brad's no Bogart: Allied is not quite the Pitts but doesn't grip as it should, writes BRIAN VINER
Released amid scanda
Chrissy Teigen flashes her bra as she buys last-minute supplies before cooking up a storm for Luna's first Thanksgiving
Family meal
That IS a bit unusual... Tom Jones sports a VERY tanned complexion as he dons a dapper navy suit at ITV gala
Bronzed
Cor blimey! The Queen Vic's Danny Dyer is related to royalty: Claudia Connell reviews last night's TV 
Criminal and royal connections 
'It's not okay to throw around jokes': Lady Gaga offers support to Kanye West following rapper's hospitalisation insisting that 'kindness is the ultimate force'
Don't talk with your mouth full! Kevin James and Jimmy Fallon spit Thanksgiving food at each other as cops in Tonight Show skit
Charming
Coffee for two! Selma Blair and her rumoured boyfriend grab a hot drink as they stroll together in LA
They were first spotted together in March
EXCLUSIVE 'She's doing so well!' Marvin Humes reveals Rochelle is almost SIX MONTHS pregnant... but they won't find out the sex this time
'Thankful for piggy back rides': Taylor Swift spends Thanksgiving with her squad at Rhode Island beach house... before trying Mannequin Challenge
Casual customer! Reese Witherspoon dresses down in a T-shirt and leggings as she shops for Thanksgiving dinner
Casual outing
GBBO champ Candice Brown pulls her signature pout with boyfriend Liam Macaulay at bash after shooting down engagement rumours
Busty TOWIE star Chloe Sims gives it her best Jessica Rabbit as she pulls out all the stops in strapless red dress for ITV gala 
Racy in red 
'You can't lose your rag every time something goes wrong!': Lord Sugar sends Paul Sullivan packing on The Apprentice
You're fired
Pregnant Stephanie Davis proudly cradles her baby bump in a form-fitting beige dress as she leads celebrity guests at beauty bash
Maternity chic
Shirtless Wayne Bridge gets cheeky as he soaks his campmates with rancid water in gruesome Dingo Dollar challenge on I'm A Celebrity 
Lookalike sisters Penelope and Monica Cruz bring twice the glamour to La Reina de Espana premiere in Madrid
Twice as nice
Perrie Edwards slaps French DJ round the face for admitting he dumped his girlfriend by text... after Zayn Malik did the same to her
Imagining it's him?
'Daddy got bored': David Beckham goofs around in the waiting room while taking his brood of children to the dentist
Joker
Pregnant WAG Becky Vardy displays her growing baby bump in a busty bodycon dress as she hits beauty awards bash
Expecting fourth child
Rocco Ritchie's girlfriend Kim Turnbull parties in London... after sharing a giggly lunch with his pal Brooklyn Beckham following cannabis bust
Clarkson firing hundreds of bullets, Hammond's knife fight with a terrorist and the Queen taken hostage: Episode Two of The Grand Tour 
Kate Moss looks radiant in a funky jumper as she poses with baby-faced model she's determined to make famous at star-studded Coach party
Former MIC star Ashley James 'sleeps rough' for homeless fundraiser... before heading into the night for star-studded party
Good cause
Snack break! Alessandra Ambrosio shows off extremely svelte abs as she sips on green juice after Thanksgiving Day workout
Now that's one pampered pooch! Lady Gaga carries her new pup around in $2,600 Louis Vuitton bag 
It's a dog's life
Daisy Lowe shows off her shapely legs in a leather miniskirt as she joins fellow brunette beauty Lucy Mecklenburgh at E! event
Pre-feast workout! Jennifer Garner and her mum Patricia cheer on runners in the Thanksgiving Day Turkey Trot
Family fun
'Reasons to be thankful': Madonna celebrates her children on Thanksgiving after teen son Rocco's arrest for drug possession 
Proud mum
Check her out! Michelle Keegan looks sophisticated in a houndstooth trouser suit as she leads the red carpet at ITV's star-studded gala night 
Handbags! Trinny mauls Kate Moss's make-up artist friend Charlotte Tilbury's collection 
Bob Hope's space age 'UFO' style home sells for just a QUARTER of its initial $50 million asking price
Welcome to St Lucia! Prince Harry is greeted by a guard of honour before sharing a joke with country's Governor General as Caribbean tour continues
Kim Kardashian visits Kanye West on Thanksgiving morning amid speculation his condition is 'worse than sleep deprivation' after breakdown
EXCLUSIVE 'There was a constant supply of water!' Myleene Klass oozes glamour at Global event... as she shoots down rumours jungle shower is fake
Isn't life peachy? Niall Horan's model girlfriend Jessica Serfaty shows off her incredible figure in a sexy swimwear shoot
Best thong ever?
Kanye's condition is 'way worse than sleep deprivation and dehydration' following breakdown... as he faces Thanksgiving in hospital with wife Kim
'We have become obsessed with paedophiles': Janet Street-Porter slams Martine McCutcheon for smothering her son, Rafferty, 21 months
BBC U-turn makes Sir Cliff's new Christmas song the record of the week on Radio 2 
It's Better To Dream
Fresh-faced Anna Friel frames her ample cleavage in a busty Bardot dress for glamorous turn at ITV Gala 
Stunning
Emily Middlemas and Saara Aalto flaunt their legs in thigh-skimming LBDs as they join the X Factor cast at star-studded ITV bash
Double trouble
'It was like watching someone rip shackles off their arms': Lady Gaga praises Selena Gomez for speaking openly about her depression battle
What a dish! Bella Hadid wears blonde wig as she whips up a scrumptious Thanksgiving meal for friends... after flashing midriff at gym
'Mind your own': Fans rush to Katie Price's defence after she receives backlash for letting her son Jett, three, wear a nappy in Instagram snap
Inspiring love match that shocked a nation: A United Kingdom tells a remarkable true story  
David Oyelowo plays tribal heir who falls in love with a white woman
Katie Waissel puts her svelte figure on show in a skimpy black bikini as she enjoys sun soaked stroll through streets of Los Angeles
The sun factor
Tom Brady and Gisele break strict diet for Thanksgiving feast as the model admits she has 'no idea' how to cook a turkey
Tucking in
'Know your limits!' Naomi Watts calls in the professionals for her first holiday after split from Liev while Eva Longoria is a domestic goddess as stars share Thanksgiving snaps
Victoria Beckham rocks sunglasses at night as she steps out with family friend Bobby Rich... who just happens to be Ellie Goulding's new beau
Katherine and Alfie step on to the Carousel: Soprano set to make stage debut alongside opera singer in new five-week run of the musical
Stage show
'Awww congrats!' Kylie Jenner fans are duped into thinking reality star was awarded Medal of Freedom by President Obama for 'realizing stuff'
Fitness fanatic Chloe Madeley shows off impeccably shredded abs in motivational throwback... but admits she still indulges in red wine
A true Twi-hard! Superfan of Twilight films drops $17,000 on the engagement ring worn by Kristen Stewart's Bella at auction
'We stick together': Michael Bublé's sister pulls out all the stops to get Noah, 3, the perfect Christmas present after the toddler's cancer diagnosis
Back to black! Sophie Wessex dazzles in floor length gown alongside Prince Edward as celebrations for DofE Award's 60th anniversary continue
She's not shy! Charli XCX performs on Sunrise in tiny shorts... after flashing her derrière in a VERY short skirt at the ARIA Awards
Funny? You must be joking! Bad Santa 2 is the season's first turkey 
Delivers dismally few belly laughs, writes BRIAN VINER.
Two reasons to give thanks! Kim Zolciak celebrates third birthday of her twins after it's confirmed she will appear in RHOA season nine
Kylie Jenner's rapper boyfriend Tyga slapped with yet ANOTHER lawsuit on his 27th birthday
Handed new legal papers as he partied 
Getting into the spirit! Miranda Kerr and Naomi Watts cook up a storm as Australian stars take to social media to share Thanksgiving celebrations
'I feel sorry for people who put me down': Vicky Pattison slams 'helmet' ex Jordan Wright after he claimed he 'dodged a bullet' when they split up
Takes no prisoners
Make-up free Meg Mathews, 50, shows off the results of her recent facelift as she steps out in silver padded jacket and casual tracksuit bottoms
'I am super thankful I'm never going to be pregnant again!': Kelly Clarkson admits she's delighted after getting tubes tied and sending husband for vasectomy
Disney's Moana ices Frozen's Thanksgiving Eve box office record by bringing in a mighty $15.7 million  
Starring Auli'i Cravalho and Dwayne Johnson
Smiling Coleen Rooney glams up for fashion lunch in chic leopard-print frock... as she puts husband Wayne's partying controversy behind her
'Fatherhood petrifies me': Professor Green reveals parenting fears... despite claims ex-wife Millie 'reluctance to have children caused marriage split'
'We had to be thin and look great all the time': Cynthia Nixon reveals the Sex And The City faced constant pressure to be perfect while filming the hit show
Celebrity Big BRAther! Chloe Khan flashes her underwear in a clingy semi-sheer knit as she attends salon launch
Never one to shy away from the limelight
'Thankful for so much': Catherine Zeta-Jones and husband Michael Douglas enjoy fun-filled family Thanksgiving dinner with Hollywood legend Kirk
Hypnotic Kate Bush is back with a thunderclap: Before The Dawn is an epic live album celebrating her 2014 comeback concerts 
New record
James Norton and on-screen love interest Morven Christie are every inch the doting parents as they film final scenes of Grantchester series three
Benedict Cumberbatch's Sherlock struggles with the Watson's baby and Toby Jones' sinister villain are revealed in series four sneak-peeks
EXCLUSIVE: 'I'm a man magnet!' Ramona Singer reveals how she got her groove back as she celebrates her 60th birthday in style
Split with husband
Ice, ice, baby! Chloe Lewis and Courtney Green whizz around the rink while filming TOWIE festive special... as clumsy Jon Clark totally stacks it
'She totally ruins it for me!': I'm A Celebrity's Scarlett Moffatt starts a feud with Strictly's Tess Daly over her presenting skills on the BBC hit
Comedian Jon Culshaw cuts a dapper figure as he joins stunning girlfriend Josie Smith for Service of Thanksgiving at Westminster Abbey
Diversity's Perri Kiely leaves fans gobsmacked with unbelievably ripped physique seven years on from Britain's Got Talent win
Run! Terrifying Alien: Covenant poster reveals earlier release date for Ridley Scott's Prometheus sequel
Back to space
'Meet my son!' DJ Khaled shares first social media photo of his cherubic newborn...a month after Snapchatting birth
Proud dad 
Helena Blondam Carter! Actress flaunts new bleached locks during break from filming to spend time with friendly ex Tim Burton back in London
The Dame's Tempest is more of a damp squib: Prison setting's novelty value has worn off, writes QUENTIN LETTS 
An insistently stark interpretation
Oh Santa Baby! Racy Irina Shayk shows off her supermodel figure as she slips into lacy lingerie for Intimissimi's festive campaign
The perfect gift
Puffy dresses, awkward grins and oh-so-80s hairdos: The cringeworthy prom pictures the stars hoped would never see the light of day 
'I'm thankful that my a** still looks good at 58!': Andie McDowell credits hiking for keeping her in great shape as she enjoys the holiday season
'I REALLY wanted to make it there!' Lindsay Lohan apologises to Kettering in new social media post after confirming she won't turn on Christmas lights
Martin Roberts is left heaving after chugging a half-pint of blended cockroaches in I'm A Celebrity's latest gut-wrenching Bushtucker trial 
'I need to get a grip': Holly Willoughby breaks down in tears for second time during interview with cancer widower... as his heartbreaking tale heads to big screen
Reality check! Amy Schumer's Mannequin Challenge goes awry by moving restaurant staff as she tries out viral trend during dinner
Fail
Lady Victoria Hervey suffers a wardrobe malfunction as she goes braless under hot pink mesh vest for yoga session in Palm Springs park
Everything okay, Kylie? Pop princess Minogue looks upset and tense in as she goes make-up free... after attending awards show with her fiancé
Caring Camilla: The Duchess of Cornwall plays with young patients as she opens a children's cancer unit following its £1.7million makeover 
Musical that turns Rosalie into a Bobbie dazzler: New production and company will see the show's hero become a heroine 
Sondheim score
'Take it back!': Strictly's Ore Oduba panics as he faces his fear of birds during This Morning presenting début
Ruffled his feathers
Catherine Zeta-Jones, 47, shows off sensationally slender figure and peachy posterior in chic black bikini as she relaxes on holiday in Mexico
PICTURED: Somber Naya Rivera shops for Thanksgiving supplies alone after announcing divorce from husband Ryan Dorsey
Keeping busy
'I hardly see him!' Toyah Willcox reveals the secret to her 30 year marriage is separate houses... but insists she and her husband are still 'very naughty'
The nicest man in Hollywood strikes again! Tom Hanks gifts a typewriter to a superfan who drew sketches of him
What a guy
'I only wear heels': Chrissy Teigen says she's 'uncomfortable' in flat shoes and sees a chiropractor twice a week 
A real high-flyer
Hilary Duff a new dark blonde hairdo for the holidays as she proudly shares heartwarming Thanksgiving family photo 
Family time
Stephanie Davis showcases burgeoning baby bump in glamorous fur coat as she heads to photo shoot for her new book in London
Final countdown
He's got moves! Prince Charles throws himself into a celebration dance at the consecration of a Syrian Orthodox Church in London
Chloe Ferry flashes serious amounts of skin in daring mesh leotard dress as she heads on another wild night out with Geordie Shore cast in Newcastle
'This is so scary!' Terrified Lauren Goodger runs away from turkeys as she fails to get into the festive spirit for TOWIE Christmas filming
Sheer daring! Heidi Klum goes bra-free in see-through T-shirt as she and Seal take their children shopping
Showed more than she bargained for
The Queen joins Prince Philip along with Prince Edward and Sophie Wessex to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Duke of Edinburgh's Award 
'She's not your mother-in-law yet!': Ferne McCann is teased by Holly Willoughby as she enjoys chat with her jungle crush Joel Dommett's mum
Who needs summer? Imogen Thomas flashes her cleavage as she models a very unseasonal printed bikini from her own range
'Apples, carrots, celery, green leaves, lemon and olive oil': Elsa Pataky lists the secret foods to fuelling her enviable figure
She's got the secret
'It was an accidental pregnancy': Kristina Rihanoff discusses becoming a mother with Ben Cohen as she admits rocky start could have split them up
EXCLUSIVE: 'If she speaks to me again I will f**king punch her!' Ellie Goulding left fuming as party guest tells her she can't enter VIP area at A-list bash
'It's a p***y or whatever you want to call it': Swedish singer Tove Lo explains THAT ovary dress she wore to awards show... made by outrageous stylist
Zayn Malik looks stylish as he enjoys low-key lunch with pals... as he's spotted for the first time since THAT handshake with ex-bandmate Niall Horan
Top of the crops! Gemma Arterton shows off new much shorter hairdo on The Graham Norton show
Chic new 'do for usually long haired beauty
PICTURED: Corey Feldman marries in Las Vegas ceremony as his bride Courtney Anne wows in dazzling dress... just two weeks after getting engaged
'It's sex that makes it annoying': Billie Piper is rarely given a script without a nude scene... and insists that roles are more 'interesting' without them
Back to top
Home
News
U.S.
Sport
TV&Showbiz
Australia
Femail
Health
Science
Money
Video
Travel
Fashion Finder
Sitemap Archive Video Archive Topics Index Mobile Apps Screensaver RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page
Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This is Network This is Money
Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us How to complain Advertise with us Syndication Terms Discount Codes Privacy policy & cookies
x
MailOnline
FREE - On the Microsoft Store