https://futurism.com/banks-are-hoarding-bitcoin-to-pay-off-hackers/
Banks Are Hoarding Bitcoin to Pay Off Hackers
NEWS
INFOGRAPHICS
VIDEOS
Sign In
Network Society
Banks Are Hoarding Bitcoin to Pay Off Hackers
George Frey/Getty Images
IN BRIEF
London banks have begun stockpiling Bitcoin to pay off cyberterrorists instead of incurring millions in damages the attacks will cause.
This reactionary solution is by no means an answer to effectively battle hackers. There needs to be a greater focus on security to close up these vulnerabilities.
Hacking just might pay, if a new trend amongst several of London’s largest banks is to be believed. According to sources, the banks have begun stockpiling bitcoins, an untraceable virtual currency, to pay off hackers targeting their institutions with cyberattacks.
The revelation that these banks are setting aside ransom funds comes in the wake of a slew of cyberattacks on Friday. Twitter, Reddit, and Netflix users all found their favorite sites down in a coordinated Distributed Denial of Service (DDos) attack.
The attackers used a Mirai-based IoT botnet to overload the sites’ servers with malicious requests from millions of IP addresses. The attack was made possible by the increasing number of devices connected within the internet of things. Any smartphone or connected device with weak login credentials can become weaponized in such an attack, and with more and more devices connected to the IoT every day, what’s a company to do?
The attack on Friday shows that sites from all sectors can be targeted by these attacks, not just those with the most cash on hand. With police ill-equipped to deal with cyberattacks, negotiating with online terrorists might just be the quickest and most effective way for companies across all industries to get back online and back to business.
References: the Guardian, The Verge
Patrick Caughill
Kristin Houser
Website
Share This
Tweet This
Email This
Get mind-blowing news & videos delivered right to your inbox!
Daily
Subscribe
Orange Is the New Raspberry? Welcome to the Age of the $20 Quad-Core Computer
A Better Journalist? AI Are Better at Predicting Elections Than Humans
How To Train Your AI: Microsoft Releases Open-Source Deep Learning Software
Over 165,000 people subscribe to our newsletter.
See stories of the future in your inbox each morning.
Subscribe
Our mission is to empower our readers and drive the development of transformative technologies towards maximizing human potential
About
FAQ
DMCA Policy
Privacy Policy
Themes
Copyright © 2016, Futurism, LLC.
All Rights Reserved.
Contact Us
Subscribe
Like us on Facebook