Receive Bitcoin Directly with Blockonomics.co and Avoid Places Where Your Funds Can Be Frozen or Blocked - CryptoCoinsNews
Receive Bitcoin Directly with Blockonomics.co and Avoid Places Where Your Funds Can Be Frozen or Blocked
Press Release: Closed or frozen account with Paypal? Denied access to Bitpay or Coinbase? Required to hand over additional identifying documents? More and more our revenue streams are subject to the approval of third-parties.
lockonomics provides services to individuals and businesses alike that are as permissionless as Bitcoin itself. Having recently released a bundle of merchant tools, including an instant API and open source shopping cart, Blockonomics is looking to serve persons who are truly unbanked (or are otherwise wary of traditional finance) but who still want to receive bitcoin professionally and reliably. Unlike a Coinbase or Bitpay, Blockonomics operates on a “direct-to-wallet” model by offering services that enhance the wallets that users already have. This includes anonymous tracking of addresses along with account-less hosted invoicing.
Paypal is, by far, the most popular credit card gateway and virtual fiat payment processor for websites across the world, but they’re also well known for freezing funds and other questionable business practices. Bitpay and Coinbase are the two most popular Bitcoin payment processors for websites in the US and have done much to increase merchant adoption, but both of these operate on the same basic model as Paypal, acting as an “agent and custodian” for received funds and restricting or forbidding use by “high-risk” and prohibited business types.
This can lead to a situation where you can not only be denied upon initial signup and review, but denied after successfully operating for some time, seemingly out of the blue. In addition, the letters you will get from their compliance departments are often generic and unhelpful, informing you of your failure to qualify, but not why you were rejected.
“These payment providers are no different than Paypal / other banks because they have control of your money,” says Blockonomics Founder and CTO, Shiva Sitamraju. “Using these will require KYC / other documentation and a long approval process.” He continues,“If you are a small business, you would rather be spending your time developing products than spending money and time chasing banks / corporations for approvals and documentation to accept payments.”
Blockomomics always uses addresses generated by your personal or business wallets and can never intercept or deny you access to your funds. In addition to its new API, Blockonomics is the first and only provider of peer-to-peer hosted invoices that are encrypted in the browser, meaning the invoices you create are readable only by you and those with whom you share the URL. This is great for freelancers and others who want to request specific currency amounts from customers, but without volatility, as the bitcoin amount is calculated when the customer loads the invoice. Other features include anonymous tracking of multiple addresses or entire HD wallets with payment notifications.
Bitcoin was created to help people “be their own bank” and Blockonomics is making that easier than ever.
Blockonomics is an easy to use bitcoin financial tracker and merchant services company. It is a one stop destination to manage all your crypto finances. Blockonomics lets you monitor balances of your addresses, get notification on credits /debits, see visualization of wallet transactions, tag your addresses and more. Create encrypted P2P invoices, connect to our payments API, or even create your own shopping cart.
We are huge fans of decentralization and cryptography. You can follow us on twitter for service updates /announcements. We would love to hear your feedback and queries. Mail us at webmaster@blockonomics.co
China Losing Control of Yuan Depreciation ahead of Trump Presidency
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
NextJapanese Man Arrested for Purchasing Bitcoin with a Stolen Credit Card04/11/2016
PreviousBlockchain Insurance Platform Inchain’s Ongoing ICO Offers a Great Investment Opportunity04/11/2016
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.