Zcash Market Report: ZEC/USDT Launches: Down -51.86% on the Day – allcoinsnews.com
HomeAltcoinsZcash Market Report: ZEC/USDT Launches: Down -51.86% on the Day
Zcash Market Report: ZEC/USDT Launches: Down -51.86% on the Day
Zcash is down -51.86% on the day on a last price of $404.85. ZEC/USDT is trading between a 24hr high of $1711.10 and a 24hr low of $404.85 on a 24hr volume of 14,602 USDT or 16.5 ZEC. The all time trend is mixed.
The 24 hour volume on Poloniex is 14602.97760750 USDT or 16.52976358 ZEC.
The much heralded Zcash has launched for trading on a number of exchanges. The opening price was USDT$9,000 per Zcash on Poloniex. While the price is fluctuating strongly we are seeing a prominent downtrend from the opening high. The closing price at press time was the daily low – with a new fat red candle forming.
Notwithstanding the launch overpricing of the digital asset, traders recognize that Zcash could have very real advantages over other altcoins.
“Zcash is the first open, permissionless financial system employing zero-knowledge security.”
“If Bitcoin is like http for money, Zcash is https. Zcash offers total payment confidentiality, while still maintaining a decentralized network using a public blockchain. Unlike Bitcoin, Zcash transactions can be shielded to hide the sender, recipient, and value of all transactions on the blockchain. Only those with the correct view key can see the contents. Users have complete control and can opt-in to provide others with their view key at their discretion. Zcash transactions do not depend on the cooperation of other parties.”
Price change is the percentage change within the period:
The 2 day 30 minute candlestick chart above shows most of the ZEC history on Poloniex. Other exchanges launched earlier.
Poloniex is the data source for this market report.
Market capitalization is the total $US dollar value of the Zcash market calculated using the formula:
market cap = ( available supply x last price )
Support is the lowest price within the period:
Resistance is the highest price within the period:
The data source Poloniex does NOT offer margin trading on this digital asset.
Zcash is down -51.86% on the day and down from $9,000.00 on launch. The two day and all time trend is mixed. ZEC/USDT saw daily and all time support at 404.85, with a daily high of $1711.10 per Zcash. The market has seen a pronounced downtrend since launch. Market sentiment is bearish.
Past history is NOT an indicator of future results. Read the legal disclaimer:
This report was printed on Monday October 31 2016 02:48 hours UTC. Contact KittyBitcoin to request custom reports.
Watch for our next Bitcoin & Ethereum Market Reports coming soon – or browse reports:
Zcash, ZEC/USDT, Poloniex, Brief, Last price, Volume, Remarks, Price change, Chart, Data source, Market capitalization, Indicators, Daily high low, Trend, Support, Margin trading, Resistance, Range, Market sentiment, Summary, Disclaimer, Printed, Coming soon, cryptocurrency, bitcoins, BTC, altcoins, investing, trading, speculation, coins, investment, digital, assets, tags
Blockchain Travel Competition and Investment Tool From Drachmae Travel
Dnotes Market Report: NOTE/BTC Up 72.76% on the Month
@KittyBitcoin supplies mobile friendly blockchain intelligence on http://kittybitcoin.com. Their favorite color is pink and the bigger the wool ball the better.
Start-Ups in Insurance to Bring Benefits of New Technology
Electronic Government as a Service Now in Beta Testing Phase
Fluent Rebrands to Hijro, Announces Blockchain Trade Asset Marketplace
Supply Chain Management and Security Through New Blockchain-Based CryptoSeal Prototype
Blockchain Testing Gives Positive Results for Consumer Payments
Know Your Customer Compliance Opportunities from New IBM and KYCK! Blockchain Project
PwC Promotes Use of Digital Assets with New Launch
First SteemFest Concludes, Sets Scene for Regular Events
DOKU and OKLink Bring Blockchain Payments to Indonesia
AllCoinsNews.com is a publication of Hans Lombardo Hong Kong Tel: +852 96881719