TechCrunch Creates a New Series on Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
TechCrunch Creates a New Series on Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology
TechCrunch's new series on Bitcoin and blockchain to be available on the platform's YouTube channel, starting Monday. Read more...
Bitcoin is probably the hottest invention of the last decade. At the current rate of growth, combined with its limitless potential, Bitcoin’s underlying blockchain technology may become the most disruptive revolutionary technological invention of this century.  Irrespective of individual opinions, it is impossible to ignore the cryptocurrency revolution. TechCrunch, the online technology magazine is convinced of Bitcoin’s legacy.
Acknowledging the popularity of Bitcoin and blockchain technology, TechCrunch has recently announced the release of its own upcoming series, “Trust Disrupted” on cryptocurrencies. The six-episode series is set to air on the platform’s YouTube channel starting Monday, 10th of October 2016.  According to TechCrunch’s announcement, the series will be featuring Nathaniel Popper, the well-known reporter from New York Times. Nathaniel has already made a name for himself in the Bitcoin community with his book, “Digital Gold: Bitcoin and the Inside Story of the Misfits and Millionaires Trying to Reinvent Money”. The TechCrunch series is said to be based on the very book.
In addition to Nathaniel and his book, the series will also feature some of the well-known Bitcoin developers, influencers, and scholars. TechCrunch has already given a brief outline of the plot for each of the six episodes.
Episode 1: About the creation of Bitcoin and the blockchain.
Episode 2: Coverage of the global Bitcoin mining network, miners, and the governance system.
Episode 3: Centralization vs Decentralization —   Handling traffic on the network.
Episode 4: Rise of digital currency and its acceptance in mainstream financial institutions.
Episode 5: Ethereum, its potential, and the recent hack.
The first two episodes will be released together on Monday, followed by a new episode every week.
Bitcoin has now become part of popular culture. Increasingly television shows and movies are including references of Bitcoin or cryptocurrencies. While the NBC’s series, Mr. Robot includes references to Bitcoin and “ECoin” (a fictional digital currency), Sony’s StartUp series revolves around a cryptocurrency startup where the cryptocurrency in question shares lots of similarities with Bitcoin in its early days of adoption.
On the brighter side, these popular references and informative video series like TechCrunch’s “Trust Disrupted” may create awareness among people, driving mass adoption of Bitcoin.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.