Stolen Bitcoin? Anti-Theft Feature Gets Second Life on Sidechains - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Stolen Bitcoin? Anti-Theft Feature Gets Second Life on Sidechains
Alyssa Hertig (@AlyssaHertig) | Published on November 4, 2016 at 17:35 GMT
At its core, bitcoin is about giving users better control of their money.
Often called "programmable money", bitcoin has scripts that limit how future bitcoin transactions can be spent (and that control variables like who can spend them). One such script ensures the correct person is spending the bitcoin by checking if the correct signature was used before unlocking and sending the funds.
This week, Blockstream core tech developer Russell O'Connor revealed he's been testing a couple of new scripts on an Elements Alpha sidechain (which is pegged to the bitcoin testnet) that could add new functionality.
Called "covenants", the new style of scripts potentially opens up possibilities for how bitcoin users can control, or restrict, spending of their money — possibly for their protection. (This is an idea that was previously explored by researchers Malte Möser, Ittay Eyal, and Emin Gun Sirer).
One use case for these scripts is to help users rein in their coins in the case of a hack (an all too common occurrence in bitcoin).
When asked what he thinks of the new covenant work, Eyal said it was potentially a boon to bitcoin users who may be worried about losing their bitcoins or otherwise having them compromised or stolen.
"It's also going to increase user-side security in a way that's invaluable."
The idea is notable as a script that can limit how bitcoins can be spent hasn't been implemented in bitcoin before, a fact noted by Eyal.
In particular, there are two new covenant scripts that Blockstream explored, each of which take parameters and outputs whether the script is valid, or whether or not the transaction is currently spendable based on its restrictions.
It's worth noting that bitcoin’s scripting system is currently quite simple for security's sake. There aren't limitless rules in bitcoin right now because new additions can be potentially dangerous and developers note that they take time to test.
This is where sidechains may come in handy, although they are not yet pinned to the main blockchain.
Bitcoin startup Blockstream has been working on these interoperable blockchains for experimenting with new features that could potentially be added to bitcoin since June of last year, and this is an example of how these new chains can be used to test new features.
These new proposed opcodes may work as the foundations for new functionalities, ones that could even come to help stop bitcoin exchanges and users from losing stolen funds.
But while Blockstream is running with the idea, it began with researchers at Cornell.
In February, researchers Malte Möser, Ittay Eyal and Emin Gun Sirer proposed the idea of bitcoin vaults (implemented with their own version of covenants) where users could pull bitcoin back in the case of a hack. (It then gained new life following the hack on Bitfinex, in which the exchange lost nearly 120,000 BTC).
"If the attacker can't gain control of the money, it takes away the motivation for stealing it in the first place," Eyal explained.
But he noted that these two requirements are often conflicting: if a user creates new keys to avoid losing them, that means it's easier for them to be stolen. Meanwhile, if you create a smaller number of total keys, it's easier to lose them.
While Blockstream tested vaults as a potential use case, there might be other future uses for the covenant scripts, including lending.
The idea seems to have been dormant for a while and developers were debating its viability even just a couple of months ago.
But these sidechain tests might mean a step towards implementation.
And while covenants and vaults had drawn some skepticism before (Peter Todd has questioned whether such a functionality should be built in the infrastructure layer of the code at Scaling Bitcoin), there seems to be optimism that it could work.
When asked if the new scripts were safe, Bitcoin Core developer Greg Maxwell responded:
Disclosure: CoinDesk is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which has an ownership stake in Blockstream.
R3 Adds Interbank Trading Market to Blockchain Consortium
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 14, 2016 at 13:38 | Michael del Castillo
As bitcoin core developer Peter Todd published his role in helping create the Zcash cryptocurrency doubt is cast on the system's "trustless setup."
Nov 13, 2016 at 14:57 | Jameson Lopp
CoinDesk takes a look under the hood to understand what security features are and aren't offered by bitcoin.
Nov 11, 2016 at 22:00 | Stan Higgins
Bitcoin Startup Blockstream Seeking Patent for Sidechains Design
The US Patent and Trademark Office (USTPO) has published a patent application submitted by bitcoin startup Blockstream for its work on sidechains.
Nov 10, 2016 at 16:45 | Alyssa Hertig
How Two New Sidechains Proposals Could Change Bitcoin's DNA
Work on bitcoin sidechains – long thought to be one of the best ways to improve the functionality of the network – is advancing. Here's how.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.