Popular Platforms Include ZCash Support Owing to Its Increasing Popularity - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Popular Platforms Include ZCash Support Owing to Its Increasing Popularity
As ZCash gains popularity more platforms include support for the private and anonymous cryptocurrency. Read more...
ZCash (ZEC), the private and anonymous cryptocurrency built over Bitcoin code has been gaining a lot of traction lately. The cryptocurrency community’s interest in ZCash has forced many companies to integrate it into their products. The latest ones to do so in the past couple of weeks include Jaxx— the blockchain wallet platform and Shapeshift — the crypto to crypto exchange.
With the inclusion of support for ZEC, the total number of cryptocurrencies supported by Jaxx blockchain wallet now stands at nine including Bitcoin, Ethereum, DAO, DASH, Augur REP, Litecoin, Ethereum Classic, ZCash and Rootstock. On a mission to become a one point blockchain interface, Decentral is in the process of continuously adding new cryptocurrencies to the wallet application. Jaxx is available for everyone irrespective of the operating system or the device they own. The application is available for Android, Apple OSX/SierraOS, Chrome, Firefox, Linux and even iOS. However, the iOS version of Jaxx has limited support for cryptocurrencies due to Apple’s strict policies. Users can only access Bitcoin, Ethereum, DAO and Litecoin support features on their Apple iPhone apps.
Shapeshift, the leading online cryptocurrency exchange platform also announced the inclusion of ZCash support late last month. With the inclusion of ZCash, the total number of cryptocurrencies supported by the platform now stands at thirty-nine. Users can exchange any of the 38 listed cryptocurrencies for ZEC and vice versa.
In its blog, Shapeshift quotes the co-founder of ZCash — Zooko Wilcox explaining the cryptocurrency,
“Zcash is a new technology that lets you put encrypted data into a blockchain. Blockchains as they currently exist, don’t offer much (or any) control over the disclosure of the data that you put on the blockchain. Any data that you put in there is visible to all users of the blockchain. Zcash makes blockchains useful for a whole range of applications that the cleartext, fully transparent blockchains cannot be used for; including fintech, healthcare, retail (buying/selling goods or services), etc. “
Freewallet.org, the cryptocurrency mobile wallets developer recently enabled users to purchase ZEC with credit cards on its platform.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.