Alleged Bitcoin Scammer Busted By Dubai Police - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 9, 2016 at 16:37 GMT
Police in Dubai have reportedly arrested a man accused stealing bitcoins from several individuals.
Local sources report that three Dubai citizens were defrauded after connecting online with someone claiming to be a bitcoin buyer who wanted to purchase the digital currency at a premium.
According to Dubai police officials, those affected apparently let the suspect access their bitcoin wallets during the sale. Once inside, those accounts were emptied, with just over $100,000 in bitcoin being taken.
Dubai officials are said to have expressed concern about the nature of the crime. Salim bin Salmin, deputy director of the Dubai Police’s Cybercrimes Department, told regional news service 7DaysUAE.
“It’s hard to trace the money. There is no legal framework for it and UAE residents are not familiar with it or how to use it for trading.”
The suspect, who is facing fraud charges following his arrest, was reportedly arrested after police used Instagram to set up a sting operation. Officials used the social media app to create the persona of a wealthy investor looking to buy bitcoins.
”We created an account for a young man, posted pictures of him looking wealthy and put up a message that he was looking to sell 1,000 bitcoins,” Dubai Police director Khamis Mattar Al Muzaina told the publication.
After the suspect was arrested, police determined that the funds had been spent on a variety of luxury goods as well as housing costs in Dubai.
Despite Trump Bump, Bitcoin Still Strives for 'Safe Haven'...
Veteran Bitcoin Legal Strategist Joins Firm Hosting Trump...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 17, 2016 at 16:01 | Stan Higgins
Dubai’s government is laying the groundwork for developing legislation around bitcoin and digital currencies.
Oct 12, 2016 at 17:08 | Stan Higgins
Major banks in Dubai and India have embarked on a series of blockchain trials with the help of Infosys.
Oct 6, 2016 at 21:05 | Stan Higgins
The FBI is Investigating a $1.3 Million Bitcoin Theft
The FBI is investigating a report filed by an anonymous Bitfinex user alleging that funds were stolen from their account.
Oct 5, 2016 at 16:40 | Michael del Castillo
Dubai Wants All Government Documents on Blockchain By 2020
The United Arab Emirates city of Dubai has announced plans to move all of its government documents to a blockchain by 2020.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.