Police Arrest Japanese Man Who Bought Bitcoin With Stolen Funds - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Police Arrest Japanese Man Who Bought Bitcoin With Stolen Funds
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 3, 2016 at 18:01 GMT
A Japanese man has reportedly been arrested and charged with computer fraud after allegedly stealing thousands of dollars from a local woman and using the funds to buy bitcoin.
Local media reports that 33-year-old Ryota Fujii committed identity fraud by using the unnamed woman’s personal ID information to purchase ¥600,000 (roughly $6,000 at press time) worth of bitcoin by way of a fraudulently obtained credit card. Those sources say it’s the first case of its kind to take place in Japan.
The suspect is said to have claimed that he stole the funds in order to settle outstanding debts against him.
“I had debts to pay back,” Fujii reportedly said.
Fujii allegedly pretended to be a money lender, setting up a fictitious account through which to funnel the funds. He then used that money to purchase bitcoin, according to local sources. The incident allegedly took place in January, the Tokyo Metropolitan Police told reporters.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:59 | Stan Higgins
Japan's Central Bank Believes Blockchain Could Create Tax Issues
A senior official for Japan's central bank had words of caution for distributed ledgers.
Nov 8, 2016 at 21:42 | Stan Higgins
Gemini Expands Bitcoin and Ether Exchange to New Asian Markets
Digital currency exchange Gemini announced yesterday that it is opening its services to traders in South Korea and Japan.
Nov 1, 2016 at 12:22 | Stan Higgins
Japanese bank SBI Group has launched a blockchain consortium focused on its domestic market.
Oct 27, 2016 at 18:12 | Stan Higgins
SBI to Launch First Bank-Backed Digital Currency Exchange
Japan is set to get another digital currency exchange.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.