John McAfee Sees Mining Operation Produce More Bitcoins Than Predicted
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
John McAfee Sees Mining Operation Produce More Bitcoins Than Predicted
Having accessing to affordable electricity is a critical factor for any bitcoin mining operation.
John McAfee and Bitcoin seem to be entwined at this point in history. Ever since launching his massive bitcoin mining operation through MGT Capital Investments Inc, things have been going well. So much even that his operation is producing bitcoins ahead of schedule. A positive note that shows mining cryptocurrency remains a profitable business assuming one has the necessary knowledge.
As is the case with any Bitcoin mining operation, specific targets have to be reached. Investing in hardware, electricity, and maintenance is not a cheap ordeal. Deadlines are set up to meet specific mined Bitcoin thresholds, and progress is measured every so often. So far, John McAfee’s operation is well ahead of its initial schedule.
John McAfee Has a Lead Over Mining Projections
Keeping in mind how the Bitcoin block reward went through a halving not too long ago, generating a lot of coins is virtually impossible. That is unless one can run a large-scale mining operation. For John McAfee and MGT Capital Investments Inc, that dream has become a reality, and their venture is doing extremely well.
To be more precise, the company is expanding their mining capacity to over five petahash soon. However, with its current hardware in place, they mind over 170 Bitcoin already. Quick calculations show this is worth over £100,000, for two months of work. It took a lot of hardware to get up and running, though, as the operation has 400 Antminer S9 machines running non-stop. That capacity will be increased to nearly 2,000 in the coming months.
Having accessing to affordable electricity is a critical factor for any bitcoin mining operation. John McAfee’s venture only “needs airconditioning two months per year”, according to an interview with IBTimes. Additionally, there is a hydroelectric power plant nearby, which helps push down the overall electricity costs. This goes to show running such an operation is far more sophisticated than putting miners in a garage at home.
MGT is forging ahead to strengthen their partnership with Bitmain Technologies. Not only is this mining venture great PR for both entities, but it bolsters future innovation as well. A joint venture is currently underway, and future expansion is scheduled. No further specific information was revealed at this time, though.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.