TNW uses cookies to personalise content and ads to make our site easier for you to use. We do also share that information with third parties for advertising & analytics.
by JUAN BUIS — 16 days ago in FINANCE
Today is a strange day for the US — even though you might not have seen it coming, Donald Trump is now president-elect. And that’s doing some interesting things to the cryptocurrency markets.
According to CoinDesk, Bitcoin prices have been steadily rising as Trump’s victory was looking more and more real throughout election night. At its highest point the popular cryptocurrency reached $738, up from a low of $703 around the time polls in the US were closing down. As America wakes up again right now, the price seems to have slightly dropped to $725.
That’s nowhere near as bad as the stocks markets, which plunged after his victory was imminent. This is what that looks like in numbers:
— Charlie Bilello, CMT (@MktOutperform) November 9, 2016
People are becoming increasingly unsure about the future of their country, and that’s why they’re buying gold and bitcoin, bringing up the price. Both are seen as investments that would retain its value in a doomsday scenario where regular fiat currencies would quickly crash.
Trump taking control of the White House might not be a literal doomsday, but it’s apparently enough to shake up traders’ behavior.
Bitcoin Bounces, Futures Flounder as Trump Nears Presidential Upset on CoinDesk
Read next: Facebook Messenger may be about to start showing you a lot more ads
Juan Buis is TNW's Digital Culture Reporter, and you should click here.
CNN accidentally broadcast 30 minutes of hardcore porn last night
5 ways to deal with expenses and reimbursements
This iPhone still works after a year on the bottom of an icy lake
Twitter suspended CEO Jack Dorsey's account by mistake
These omnidirectional conveyor belts are a total trip
You can now learn the basics of coding with Disney's Moana
CNN accidentally broadcast 30 minutes of hardcore porn last night
Delete yourself from the internet by pressing this button
Google's AI watched thousands of hours of TV to learn how to read lips better than you
China now has an Amazon Echo-like device called the 'LingLong DingDong'
Hilarious commercial pokes fun at the dangers of getting immersed in virtual reality
Stay tuned with our weekly recap of what’s hot & cool by our CEO Boris.
Black Friday exclusive: 4 tech deals you won’t want to miss
CNN accidentally broadcast 30 minutes of hardcore porn last night
Google launches its own festival to bring together music and technology
Star Wars to launch obnoxiously branded smartphones in Japan
This scary artificial intelligence has learned how to pick out criminals by their faces
Watch a tuned-up vape explode in the pocket of this unexpecting guy
Why your app could fail before you launch -- and how to avoid the crash
Today is a great day to get an Amazon Echo in the UK
How to backup your precious data without getting a headache
Microsoft has set up a dedicated support line for Surface Studio owners
Colibri is a browser that thinks life is better without tabs
Step out of your Facebook echo chamber with this simple app
This awesome 4-minute music video was actually shot in only 4 seconds
A creative idea plus a fresh network is the best way to go from zero to millions.
© 2006–2016 The Next Web B.V. Made with ♥ in Amsterdam. Powered by