Bitcoin Price Watch; Let's Get Some Action! - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Another day done, and another pretty flat day for intraday action in the bitcoin price. We did manage to get in to a short trade a little earlier on, and this has meant we were able to pull in a small downside profit, but nothing over exciting, and definitely nothing to write home about.
We’ve got a evening out of Asia ahead of us, and the closing hours of the US afternoon session, so with any luck we will see some volume from both and manage to get in to a sustained momentum entry.
So, with this said, and as we head forward into the above mentioned sessions, here’s a look at what we are targeting, and a discussion of where we are going to get in and out of the markets according to our intraday strategy.
As ever, take a look at the chart below to get an idea of the levels in focus.
As the chart shows, the levels we are looking at define a range of in term support to the downside at 606 flat, and in term resistance to the upside at 609. This is an incredibly tight range, so intrarange trading is definitely out of the picture. Breakout only for the session, with scalp entries, tight targets and even tighter stops.
Specifically, if we see price break through in term support to the downside, we will look to get in short towards an immediate downside target of 600 flat. A stop on the trade at 608 works well to define risk and ensure we are taken out of the position if things turn against us.
If price breaks through resistance, we will look for a close above resistance, and enter on the close towards 614 flat. A stop on this one at 607 looks good.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.