US Federal Prosecutor Kathryn Haun: "Bitcoin is About More Than Crime"
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
US Federal Prosecutor Kathryn Haun: “Bitcoin is About More Than Crime”
During the Silk Road nvestigation, Haun learned quite a few different things about online crime as well.
For the longest time, there is a lot of discussion regarding Bitcoin usage among criminals. Kathryn Haun, the US Federal Prosecutor, recently unveiled how she tries to bring criminal Bitcoin usage to an end. Prosecuting cryptocurrency-related crimes has been proven to be quite a challenge so far, though.
Getting in contact with Bitcoin has been quite a journey of discovery for US federal prosecutor Kathryn Haun. Ever since she first got in touch with cryptocurrency, her life has changed significantly. From not knowing what Bitcoin is to teaching classes on digital currency, things have changed at a rapid pace. Moreover, she also aided in getting two corrupt Silk Road investigators put behind bars lin 2015.
Kathryn Haun Sees Beyond The Media’s Bitcoin Coverage
As many cryptocurrency users are well aware of, the Silk Road investigation has many different angles to it. Not only is there a question about the judgment passed on to Ross Ulbricht, but law enforcement agents are not without blame either. In fact, two former agents attempted to steal over US$800,000 in Bitcoin during the investigation. Kathryn Haun has been at the center of it all and gained valuable knowledge along the way.
The original investigation into these corrupt agents all began with an anonymous tip. While no one expected any truth to come forth from it, it turned out to be the sheer truth. Greed brings out the worst in people, and law enforcement agents are no different than other human beings in that regard.
During the Silk Road nvestigation, Haun learned quite a few different things about online crime as well. Both corrupt federal agents got close to being the ‘perfect criminals”, as they know how to cover tracks. However, certain behavioral patterns are impossible to deny. Hiding behind online aliases alone is not enough to reduce the number of digital breadcrumbs.
What is rather surprising is how Haun admitted criminals tend to use mailboxes offered by Russian providers. As was to be expected, tumblers and mixers play a big role in laundering stolen Bitcoin funds. Then again, even those activities can be unscrambled, given enough time and effort.
It is heartwarming to see Kathryn Haun admit Bitcoin is about much more than crime alone. In fact, crime levels related to cash are still much higher than cryptocurrency’s, which is not entirely surprising. Moreover, she’s also a proponent of blockchain technology, which can “make a significant impact.” After all, the majority of crime is facilitated due to forged documents; a threat blockchain technology can nullify with ease.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.