Watch Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain, episode two | TechCrunch
10TH ANNUAL CRUNCHIES AWARDSThe Finalists Have Been Announced Get Your Tickets Today
Watch Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain, episode two
Posted Oct 10, 2016 by Rebecca Friedman (@rebeccapf12)
Even more fascinating than the idea of a digital currency are those who dedicate their lives to it. A network of miners all across the world, many of whom are in China, run the system. They not only process every Bitcoin transaction, but they also play a large role in governing the platform, for better or for worse. Episode two looks at where these Bitcoin mines are developing and who is behind them. It also explores the role of these miners, the decision power that they posses and the delicate balance of power required for the platform to operate in the way in which it was intended.
Check out episode one here and episode two above. New episodes will be released on TechCrunch.com or on our YouTube channel daily throughout this week.
FEATURED IMAGE: JASON BENJAMIN UNDER A PUBLIC DOMAIN LICENSE
Tiny Device Allows You To Track Anything (it's Genius!)
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Bitcoin is a form of digital currency, created and held electronically. However, it is a currency not controlled by a central source. Bitcoins aren’t printed, like dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world, using software that solves mathematical problems. It is the first example of a growing category of money known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin …
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Facebook Builds a Censorship Tool | Crunch Report
Duolingo’s new chatbots help you brush up on your foreign language conversation skills
CRM Berater (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
C++ Developer - Qt Product Development (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
Full Stack Engineer at FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
UI Engineering @ FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
Senior Backend Engineer @ MeetMe at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA, United States)
© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by