MUFG is Using Digital Currency to Reward its Employees - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
MUFG is Using Digital Currency to Reward its Employees
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 19, 2016 at 18:46 GMT
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG), the parent company of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, has embarked on a new digital currency trial through one of its subsidiaries.
MUFG is conducting the test through a subsidiary called Kabu.com Securities Co, at which employees will be awarded a blockchain-based currency called “OOIRI” in return for maintaining good health. Details posted on the Kabu.com website indicate that the project involves representatives from both that firm as well as MUFG’s innovation unit.
The OOIRI currency is said to be tied to the value of the yen and will available for spending at local businesses through an app called Z-Wallet, developed by an Israeli startup called Zerobillbank. Further, health data will be drawn in part through the use of geolocational software that is integrated in the wallet.
MUFG, primarily through the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, has pursued blockchain applications in the areas of financial management and digital cash. MUFG is also an investor in San Francisco-based digital asset exchange Coinbase.
If successful, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ will reportedly look to introduce a system similar to the OOIRI reward currency.
Deloitte Returns as Title Sponsor for Consensus 2017
Ethereum Forks But Blockchain Attacks Keep On Coming
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Jun 10, 2016 at 20:17 | Pete Rizzo
One of Japan's Largest Banks is Downplaying its Rumored Digital Currency Plans
Is a major Japanese bank developing its own digital currency? MUFG is distancing itself from reports it could release such a product next year.
Apr 11, 2016 at 22:31 | Stan Higgins
Blockchain startup Chain has inked a new deal with Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (MUFG).
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.