Uber Should Consider Implementing Bitcoin Payment Option - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Uber, the ride sharing giant recently faced issues with its banking partner, which wouldn't have happened if it had used cryptocurrency payments on its app. Read more...
The international ride sharing giant, Uber has remained undecided about the implementation of Bitcoin payments for a while now. There were few attempts by third party developers in the past where they tried to support Bitcoin payments on Uber application, but without much success.
In a recent incident, Uber has come to realize the disadvantage of increased reliance on traditional financial institutions for collection and disbursement of funds. According to a report on one of the leading English daily, hundreds of Uber drivers in Scotland and other cities surrounding London were left without cash after the bank failed to execute weekly fund transfers to their accounts. The incident, much to the inconvenience of the drivers has got them waiting till Monday before they can even fill their fuel tanks.
While it is not clear who is really at fault here, Uber spokesperson has shifted the blame on a banking glitch which led to the delay of payments. Uber claims that it has already contacted the bank to reinitiate the payments to those affected accounts. Some believe that they may have to wait till mid-week before they can see the money owed to them by Uber.
As the ride-sharing company tries to maintain more control over its drivers by being the custodian of fares paid over the application, the whole mess could have been easily avoided by including a cryptocurrency option. This way, even if a small percentage of users pay with Bitcoin directly to the driver’s wallet, they will be in a position to sustain in case of delays in payment from the company.
Uber is currently facing legal issues in the United Kingdom after a group of drivers initiated legal action for being wrongly classified as being self-employed. As the company sorts out its legal issues, hope it learns something from the recent banking issue and includes an additional payment option on its application for the benefit of millions of cryptocurrency users across the world.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.