Cybercrime as a Service on the Darknet Has Europol Concerned - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Cybercrime as a Service on the Darknet Has Europol Concerned
Europol believes that militants can potentially use cybercrime as a service from the darknet to launch attacks on European nations. Read more...
Software as a Service (SaaS) has been around for a while until the Bitcoin revolution introduced Blockchain as a Service (BaaS).  Thanks to both, now we have Cybercrime as a Service. The emerging threat as got Europol concerned.
According to recent reports, the European law enforcement agency has expressed its concerns about the increasing availability of cybercrime services for hire on the darknet. These services, run by hackers can be easily hired by anyone to target anyone. All they have to do is make a payment for the requested amount in Bitcoin.
The recent arrests of two hackers responsible for running a similar service called vDOS in Israel has reminded Europol of the potential threats these services may pose to the security. Even though it hasn’t happened yet, Europol believes that militants and terrorists may make use of such services in the future to launch a coordinated attack on people and facilities across Europe.
READ MORE: Professional DDoS Service vDOS Offline, Two Arrested
The concerns were voiced by the law enforcement agency in its latest annual cybercrime threat assessment report. This report comes at the time when the whole of Europe is at a heightened state of alertness following multiple attacks by militants belonging to ISIS.  While the report cautions about the potential use of darknet and cryptocurrencies for cyberattacks by militants, it also states that there is no evidence to show that the militants by themselves possess the capability of launching cyberattacks bigger than defacement of websites. This lack of expertise may lead them to avail services from hackers and cybercriminals on the darknet.
“Europol is concerned about how an expanding cybercriminal community has been able to further exploit our increasing dependence on technology and the internet, …We have also seen a marked shift in cyber-facilitated activities relating to trafficking in human beings, terrorism and other threats,”
— states Rob Wainwright, the director of Europol.
So far, most of the cyberattacks have been confined to Ransomware and DDoS attacks on individuals, banks, and companies. But the possibility of targeting these towards the government, law enforcement and first responders in combination with a simultaneous physical attack may potentially turn out to be catastrophic.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.