ECB urges EU to limit bitcoin use over fear of losing control over money supply | Economic Collapse News
HELPING YOU SURVIVE AND PROSPER IN THE GREATER DEPRESSION
ECB urges EU to limit bitcoin use over fear of losing control over money supply
October 19, 2016 By Andrew Moran Leave a Comment
The European Central Bank (ECB) is urging European Union (EU) institutions to discourage the use of digital currencies, such as bitcoin, by highlighting the fact that they do not have the same legal status as currency or money.
According to a legal opinion released on Tuesday, the ECB is urging EU legislators to impose new rules on virtual currencies similar to bitcoin. The reason for this is because they fear that it may actually weaken its own control over the eurozone money supply.
“The reliance of economic actors on virtual currency units, if substantially increased in the future, could in principle affect the central banks’ control over the supply of money … although under current practice this risk is limited,” the ECB said in the opinion for the European Parliament and Council.
“Thus (EU legislative bodies) should not seek in this particular context to promote a wider use of virtual currencies.”
Recently, the European Commission drafted new rules that would mandate digital currency exchange platforms to ramp up checks on the identities of its users and to report surreptitious transactions.
However, the ECB does not believe that the Commission’s proposal goes far enough. The central bank notes that the draft does not cover the use of virtual money to buy goods and services.
“Such transactions would not be covered by any of the control measures provided for in the proposal and could provide a means of financing illegal activities,” the ECB said in a report.
It looks like the ECB is trying to reverse the latest trend of governments, central banks and local authorities maintaining a favorable opinion of bitcoin and other digital currencies (they are likely starting to support cryptocurrencies because they realize they can better monitor and track the population).
Like this article? Get ECN delivered to your inbox daily. Subscribe here.
Peter Schiff: Making America great again will be harder than Trump voters think
Ain't What it Used to be: $1 million will be worth $306k in 40 years
Trump's Student Loan Plan Treats the Symptoms, Not the Disease
Peter Schiff urges investors to be cautious about Donald Trump's 'Midnight in America'
Here is what you can expect from the millennial in your life this Thanksgiving (video)
5 random things for Friday (McDonald's & the minimum wage, #NotMyPresident, Black Friday madness)
Trump Goes Keynesian: Keynes Would Have Loved Trump's Economic Plan
Frexit? France won't be following the UK out of the EU
Canadian households to add 3% more consumer debt on Black Friday
Will Paul Krugman endorse Donald Trump's economic stimulus plans?
Canadian households to add 3% more consumer debt on Black Friday
5 random things for Friday (McDonald’s & the minimum wage, #NotMyPresident, Black Friday madness)
Trump’s Student Loan Plan Treats the Symptoms, Not the Disease
COPYRIGHT © 2016 · ECONOMIC COLLAPSE NEWS · BUILT BY ENTERPRISE WEB DESIGNS