Trump Picks Gay Billionaire for Transition Team, as Bitcoin Continues to Soar After Trump Win | FxPips.com
/ Bitcoin News / Commodities News / CryptoCurrency News / Market News / News / Trump Picks Gay Billionaire for Transition Team, as Bitcoin Continues to Soar After Trump Win
Trump Picks Gay Billionaire for Transition Team, as Bitcoin Continues to Soar After Trump Win
POSTED BY DAVID RED ON NOVEMBER 14, 2016 AT 5:37 AM
Trump Picks Gay Billionaire for Transition Team, as Bitcoin Continues to Soar After Trump Win
AS soon as America declared a new president in the person of the outlandish tycoon with the heavy pompadour Donald Trump, the stock market came temporarily crashing down, only to recover early the following day.
It was not only the stock market that became the recipient of the initial Trump scare. One of the sectors that experienced a considerable jolt was the digital currency. After Trump’s ascencion to power, the price of bitcoin rallied to a recent peak of $740 overnight, and started trading at about $730 Wednesday morning. This showed a 3 pct advance from Tuesday’s latest market value, which was pegged at $709.
In the commodities market, precious metal gold also witnessed a marked surge in value on Tuesday, rising 4 pct, only to drop the other day but interestingly, the cryptocurrency was among the only electronic currencies to get a boost from news of a looming Trump victory.
Bitcoin’s closest rivals in terms of market cap – Ethereum and Ripple – couldn’t sustain their momentum and fell in value following the U.S. polls. Trump will report for White House duty on January 20.
Although Bitcoin kept its composure amid the closely-fought political war in the United States, and it having a natural disposition of being very volatile, forex experts say that Bitcoin’s most recent price advance “comes as affirmation to those who argue bitcoin is a haven at times of market unpredictability.”
In the midst of all the drama and market uncertainty, especially during Bitcoin’s roller-coaster ride in 2010, it has since convinced a huge number of market players of its ability to deal with existing pressures in whatever form.
But Bitcoin still has a long way to go to really stand the test of time, and reclaim the glory of its heyday back in 2013, when the world’s most sought-after virtual money registered an incredible $1,200 in price.
In other news, Trump has appointed Bitcoin investor Peter Thiel to form part of his Presidential Transition Team. In an interview with New York Times, Thiel said: “A page in history books has turned, and there’s an opening to think about some of our problems from a new standpoint… I will try to help the president in any way I can.”
Thiel, the billionaire tech investor who co-founded PayPal, has built and financed some of the biggest startups in Silicon Valley, but his influence in politics could become the foundation of his next legacy.
Trade 24 Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
Trading Banks Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
Zcash, the New Cryptocurrency, Makes “Deafening” Entry, Threatens Bitcoin, Ethereum
Company Earnings Report, as of Nov. 4, 2016
ABOUT US CONTACT US PRIVACY POLICY ADVERTISE SITEMAP PARTNERS
Risk Disclaimer: Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk, and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading, and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.