Bitcoin Wallet Blockchain to Add Buying Option - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 14, 2016 at 17:13 GMT
Bitcoin wallet company Blockchain is beta testing a new in-wallet purchase option in partnership with payments startup Coinify.
Announced today, the feature will enable users of the popular wallet service to purchase bitcoin directly. Coinify, based in Denmark, operates in more than 30 countries in the region.
Today’s announcement marks the first step as Blockchain and Coinify will trial the option for customers in Europe on an invite-only basis, and the startups are eyeing a broader European launch within the next few weeks. Feedback collected from the trial will be used to tweak the option in anticipation of a global launch in the months ahead, though when that might take place isn't clear at this time.
The two startups framed the integration as a means to cut friction in the bitcoin buying process.
Blockchain CEO Peter Smith said in a statement:
“This announcement represents a giant step forward in making bitcoin, still a nascent currency, a more compelling and efficient financial solution for new users.”
The feature would mark a notable shift in strategy for Blockchain, which has long emphasized its software-only wallet design (it has not featured a purchase option since it was founded in 2012).
The deal comes months after Coinify raised $4m in a round led by Swedish banking group SEB and early-stage VC fund SEED Capital Denmark, its second funding round to date. Blockchain raised a $30m Series A round in 2014.
Former SEC Commissioner Dan Gallagher Joins Symbiont Board
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 22, 2016 at 22:35 | Stan Higgins
Wallet service Blockchain has registered its 10 millionth bitcoin wallet.
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:00 | Michael del Castillo
The Swiss Government is Paving the Way for Crypto Banks
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
Nov 15, 2016 at 21:15 | Pete Rizzo
Sweden's central bank could soon launch its own digital currency – though it hasn't yet decided how the offering would work.
Nov 11, 2016 at 20:51 | Stan Higgins
Hong Kong Central Bank: Blockchain Holds 'Enormous Potential'
The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) has published a new white paper on distributed ledger tech.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.