Bitcoin growth for iSignthis | News | i-Gaming | InterGame
Leading bitcoin payments provider Coinify and compliance specialist iSignthis are expanding their existing agreement to provide iSignthis with access to a new market and customers.
The move comes as Coinify also seals a strategic partnership with bitcoin wallet provider Blockchain.
“We believe that this strategic partnership gives a whole new perspective in how to collaborate in the industry,” said Mark Højgaard, CEO and co-founder of Coinify.
John Karantzis, CEO and managing director of iSignthis, added: “We are delighted to continue our relationship with Coinify and to assist them in the expansion of their business. We will continue to provide know-your-customer services, enabling them to identify new customers and deliver an efficient on-boarding process to their increased customer base.
“Coinify will be advantageously positioned to meet the proposed revision to the European Commission’s fourth AML directive, which seeks to regulate digital currency operators from early 2017.”
ASAP Italia, owner of Italian odds comparison platform Superscommesse.it and other betting portals, has entered into a partnership with Sportradar to develop the daily fantasy sports offering in Europe.
Kambi Group is to provide multi-channel sports betting service to PlayCity, the online and land-based casino brand of Apuestas Internationals, which is based in San Andrés Cholula, Mexico.
The third edition of SiGMA, the Malta i-gaming event that took place at the Intercontinental Arena in St Julian’s earlier this month, welcomed a record 4,000 visitors.
InterGame is the only monthly magazine covering the international coin-op amusements and gaming industry.
InterGaming is the leading monthly magazine covering the international land-based casino and gaming industry.
Published bimonthly, iNTERGAMINGi is the leading publication for the growing international online gaming industry.
An extensive annual buyers’ directory with more than 1,500 suppliers listed in the coin-op, casino and i-gaming sectors.
All the latest innovations for children in the indoor play, edutainment, outdoor adventure and simulation sectors.
Coin-op Community is an online marketplace where buyers meet sellers, produced in association with InterGame.
About Contact us Our publications Advertise Subscriptions Pay online
InterGame Ltd, Office Block 1, Southlink Business Park, Hamilton Street, Oldham, OL4 1DE
Tel: +44 (0)161 633 0100 | Fax: +44 (0)161 627 0009
© InterGame Ltd. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Refund Policy
This website uses cookies to enhance your experience and allow key parts of the site to work. By browsing this website you are giving us your consent to set cookies. Learn more ›
By entering my email address, I certify that I am at least 18 years of age.