Bitcoin Price Drops 5% as New China Rumors Stoke Trading - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitcoin Price Drops 5% as New China Rumors Stoke Trading
Pete Rizzo (@pete_rizzo_) | Published on November 3, 2016 at 20:46 GMT
After weeks of gains, the price of bitcoin fell back today, dropping roughly 6% on unconfirmed reports that Chinese regulators may soon take measures to restrict domestic exchange activities.
First reported by Bloomberg, the news source is said to have published a report detailing how Chinese officials could soon prohibit domestic bitcoin exchanges from moving certain volumes of bitcoin and other digital currencies abroad.
Of note, the article alleges, are concerns that bitcoin exchange users may be buying bitcoin on local exchanges and selling abroad, thereby evading foreign exchange rules.
At press time, however, the article in question was not available online, though it was cited by other news outlets including Sina and ZeroHedge.
Price declines began at 15:00 UTC, seemingly coinciding with the spread of the news across social media. The price would fluctuate wildly over the course of the day's trading, rising to a high of $744 and falling to a low of $677.
But given the uncertainty surrounding the news, some analysts said the market was likely using the reports as an opportunity to capitalize on a pending market panic.
"It's one of those things where a news article is really just an excuse for traders to sell instead of buy."
Other analysts reported that similar behavior was likely given that fake news about China has often been used as way to encourage speculative market activity.
Such comments recall the height of bitcoin's price climb in 2013, when the news that China would perhaps "ban" the digital currency caused steep market declines.
"We've had China scares like this so many times," Chris DeRose, the host of a popular bitcoin podcast, recalled.
He added: "China is effectively a black box to us here."
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 21, 2016 at 13:00 | Stan Higgins
UBS plans to invest in blockchain as part of an expansion plan in China.
Nov 19, 2016 at 15:25 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Breaches $750 But Struggles to Set New 2016 High
Bitcoin prices repeatedly breached $750 during the week through 18th November as traders responded to macroeconomic uncertainty.
Nov 18, 2016 at 13:25 | Pete Rizzo
Bitcoin Price Passes $750 as it Nears Five-Month High
The price of bitcoin is now trading above $750, its highest total in nearly five months.
Nov 17, 2016 at 13:56 | Stan Higgins
IBM China Wants to Use Blockchain to Fight Climate Change
IBM’s China division is working with a regional textile printing firm to to develop a platform for trading digital assets tied to carbon emissions.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.