CME Group Launches Bitcoin Reference Rate and Bitcoin Real Time Index – CoinSpeaker
Don’t Miss Deals As Bitcoin Black Friday 2016 Begins!
Goldman Sachs and Santander Leave R3 Blockchain Consortium
Bitcoin Price Leaps to $745 as Chinese Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low
CME Group Launches Bitcoin Reference Rate and Bitcoin Real Time Index
BITCOIN, COMPANIES, CRYPTOCURRENCIES, INVESTORS, NEWS, PRICE, STORY OF THE DAY
CME Group Launches Bitcoin Reference Rate and Bitcoin Real Time Index
BY TATSIANA YABLONSKAYA ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15TH, 2016 5:58AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT
The initiative is expected to professionalize and legitimize bitcoin as a financial asset.
The CME Group is putting forward an initiative to publish Bitcoin prices as both a real time spot price index and a reference rate by traders, investors, and the public. This is the first time that a large asset exchange implements such a measure. Hopefully, the initiative will contribute to bitcoin legitimization as a financial asset.
The CME informs on its website that the CME CF Bitcoin Reference Rate (BRR) and the CME CF Bitcoin Real Time Index (BRTI) will be a standardized reference rate and spot price index with independent oversight. These tools are expected to boost the professionalization of bitcoin trading and hereafter establish digital assets as a new asset class.
The pricing data will be provided by such leading bitcoin exchanges and trading platforms as Bitfinex, Bitstamp, GDAX, itBit, Kraken and OKCoin.com.
“An independent, transparent bitcoin reference rate will further professionalize the asset class. We are excited to be a participating exchange”, Nejc Kodric, CEO at Bitstamp, says.
The CME Group explains: “The BRR aggregates the trade flow of these exchanges during a specific calculation window into a once-a-day reference rate of the U.S. dollar price of bitcoin. Calculation rules are geared toward a maximum of transparency and real-time replicability in underlying spot markets. Meanwhile, the BRTI is an index that aggregates global demand to buy and sell bitcoin into a consolidated order book and reflects the fair, instantaneous U.S. dollar price of bitcoin. It is geared toward low latency and timeliness and is based entirely on forward-looking input data.”
“Digital currency has long-needed participation from a company such as CME Group to elevate the asset class to a new level. We are thrilled to be a member of the oversight committee,” said Michael Moro, CEO of Genesis Global Trading.
The BRR and BRTI will officially launch November 14th, in the production environment on Simple Binary Encoding (SBE) market data feed.
Last year, CME Group partnered with some other financial institutions such as the London Stock Exchange, Euroclear, Societe Generale, Swiss bank UBS, and clearing house LCH.Clearnet, to establish a body that will investigate the potential applications of the blockchain in the payments industry. The aim of the team called ‘Post Trade Distributed Ledger Working Group’ was to explore how the technology may transform the way of conducting transactions.
“Our view is the technology needs to be developed in a considered and rigorous manner, in partnership with clients, to provide the right service and benefit to them. Given our long experience in post-trade, our group has significant technical expertise to bring to the discussion,” the London Stock Exchange, one of the partners, said.
Don’t Miss Deals As Bitcoin Black Friday 2016 Begins!
Goldman Sachs and Santander Leave R3 Blockchain Consortium
Bitcoin Price Leaps to $745 as Chinese Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low
PolkaDot Brings Multiple Blockchains into One Network by Unlocking Scalability and Extensibility
PwC Launches New Fintech Capability Called ‘Vulcan Digital Asset Services’
This Game Will Keep You Up All Night!
This game will keep you up all night!
10 Easy Skin Secrets Dermatologists Don’t Want You to Know
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
We welcome comments that advance the story directly or with relevant tangential information. We try to block comments that use offensive language, all capital letters or appear to be spam, and we review comments frequently to ensure they meet our standards. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Coinspeaker Ltd.
Morgan Stanley Might Leave Blockchain Consortium R3 CEV
Online Wallet Provider iPayYou Enables Bitcoin Payment for Amazon
Siemens and U.S. Startup LO3 Energy Partners on Blockchain Microgrids
Coinbase Promises to Fight the IRS in Court Over Data on All Active US Bitcoin Traders
Stripe Unveils Radar to Detect E-Commerce Fraud Behavior
TechCrunch Launches New Series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain’
Payoneer Raises $180M in Series E Funding Round to Help Businesses Move Money Across Borders
IBM to Invest $200 Million Into Watson Internet of Things A.I. Business in Germany
Copyright © 2016 STB Media Ltd. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of STB Media Ltd. is prohibited.