Bitcoin price jumps as investors flock to safety after Donald Trump election victory
Bitcoin price jumps as investors flock to safety after Donald Trump election victory
Bitcoin rose by as much as 4.6pc against the dollar CREDIT: AFP
t has often been seen as one of the most volatile and risky assets around, but even Bitcoin was seen as a safe haven in the wake of Donald Trump’s historic US election victory, as investors flocked to the digital currency.
Bitcoin rose by as much as 4.6pc against the dollar on Wednesday and was close to a 35-month high against the pound amid a global sell-off.
Bitcoin - often referred to as a form of digital gold by its supporters - has historically been defined by its unpredictability. In 2013 its value rose from less than $10 to over $1,000 before a breakdown in confidence and collapse of a key online exchange sent it plummeting.
However, growing confidence in the currency and global uncertainty about other assets have seen Bitcoin’s price roughly double since the start of the year. On Wednesday its price touched $742.96, within touching distance of the $777 it reached shortly before Britain’s EU referendum in June, although it fell below $730 in later trading.
The move mirrored rises seen by other safe haven assets. Gold, silver and the Japanese yen all rose on Wednesday as the dollar and global stock markets fell. Prices of such safe havens typically rise amid major investor uncertainty and a lack of confidence in other investments more exposed to the economy, such as stocks and bonds.
Bitcoin’s entry into this club marks a potential maturity point for the cryptocurrency, or to look at it another way, shows what an unprecedented situation Trump’s victory is.
In December 2013, Bitcoin rose to around $1,200 but collapsed when Mt Gox, the most popular online exchange, was hit by a cyber attack that saw many users lose thousands.
Swiss rescue dogs to get help from drones to find missing people
Deals on drugs, weapons and stolen data - Black Friday comes to the dark web
Delete yourself from the internet with this website
Boss of Scotland's Skyscanner defends £1.4bn sale to Chinese travel giant Ctrip
Minority Report-style AI learns to predict if people are criminals from their facial features
iPhone dropped into frozen lake still works over a year later 
Dishonored 2 review - A riveting, ravishing adventure that represents the best gaming has to offer
Microsoft releases Windows classic Solitaire on iPhone and Android
US election: Jill Stein to challenge results in swing states of Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania amid claims of cyber attacks
Elite cyber defence college to open at World War Two code-breaking site Bletchley Park
Autumn Statement 2016: The Telegraph's business panel gives its verdict
Parking chaos as payment app RingGo offline across the country 
Facebook 'prepares to suppress posts in bid to enter China'
How much of the UK has mobile phone coverage? EE offers to pay to help consumers find out
Twitter suspends account of its own chief executive Jack Dorsey
Battery breakthrough will let phones charge in seconds and last for a week
Fraudsters targeting Deliveroo customers steal hundreds of pounds of food 
Made.com founder steps down as chief executive as furniture retailer approaches £100m in sales
From Napflix to Manbang: weird and wonderful Netflix rivals around the world
Facebook Messenger scam steals passwords and hijacks accounts