Cheapest Lifetime Bitcoin Cloud Mining Contracts With HashFlare, Ten Percent Discount For One Week Only
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Downtrend Intact
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Showing Positive Signs
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Trend Bearish
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Buyers Make It?
ViaBTC Receives Mysterious 210 Bitcoin Deposit To Cloud Mining Address
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Cheapest Lifetime Bitcoin Cloud Mining Contracts With HashFlare, Ten Percent Discount For One Week Only
Bitcoin Press Release: Hashflare is pleased to announce a 10% discount on all orders of lifetime Bitcoin cloud mining contracts for the next week. Simply sign up for a free account by clicking here and use discount code HF16SMILE10 for 10% off all cloud mining purchases until October 15th only: the best value BTC, Dash, ETH, and LTC cloud mining to be found.
With over 3 years experience in the industry, the platform also offers lifetime Scrypt and Bitcoin cloud mining contracts, and one year ETH and DASH contracts, with many features including proof of hashrate, mining pool selection, and instant payouts.
Run by established cryptocurrency mining hardware provider HashCoins, which has over 3 years experience in the industry, HashFlare offers the ultimate Dash, Bitcoin, Scrypt and Ethereum cloud mining experience for users. Hashflare is pleased to announce prices per 10 GH/s of BTC cloud mining have just been reduced from $1.60 for 10 GH/s, to $1.20 for 10 GH/s, and with the 10% discount running for one week, they are currently offering the best value Bitcoin cloud mining available online.
An important feature of the HashFlare platform is that customers can see and monitor their hashrate live, and even choose the mining pool they wish to mine on. This demonstrates that HashFlare is running a real cloud mining operation and is renting real mining hardware to users. Users can also find the most profitable mining pool for their hashing power.
HashFlare also offer instant Bitcoin, ETH, and DASH withdrawals, lifetime contracts with no fixed end date, user mining pool allocation, fixed fees, and a user dashboard with highly detailed statistics.
Anyone, anywhere worldwide can easily cloud mine Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, and now Dash, with no specialized knowledge or the need to maintain specialized mining hardware. All that needs to be done is sign up for a free account on HashFlare and purchase a contract that will instantly begin mining Bitcoin, Dash, Litecoin or Ethereum.
To sign up for a free account, and learn more about lifetime Bitcoin, Scrypt, or one year Ethereum and Dash cloud mining contracts with NO maintenance fees, which represents the best value on the market, please go to: https://hashflare.io
After creating your free account you can also claim 10% off all BTC, ETH, DASH and LTC cloud mining purchases make sure to use discount code HF16SMILE10 with all purchases.
  HashFlare is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to FDIC and other consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only. Cryptocurrency prices are volatile, and profitability of cloud mining contracts change over time due to mining difficulty rates, exchange rate fluctuations, and other factors.
Bitcoin PR Buzz has been proudly serving the PR and marketing needs of Bitcoin and digital currency tech start-ups for over 2 years. Get your own professional Bitcoin and digital currency Press Release. Click here for more information.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.