Swiss Railway Service to Sell Bitcoin - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 28, 2016 at 12:42 GMT
UPDATE (28th October 17:55 BST): This article has been updated with comment from SBB
The operator of a national railway service in Switzerland will begin selling bitcoin through its ticket kiosks starting next month.
SBB quietly unveiled the service on its website, set to begin on 11th November. Customers, who need to have a QR-code enabled bitcoin wallet and a valid Swiss mobile phone number, will be able to buy between CHF 20 and CHF 500 (up to roughly $500).
Representatives for SBB did not immediately respond to a request for comment. But according to Swiss business newspaper Der Bund, SBB representatives confirmed the service, saying that it is working with a local payments startup called Sweepay.
"Until now, there have only been limited opportunities to purchase bitcoin in Switzerland. With over 1,000 ticket machines, SBB has a dense distribution network that is available round the clock and is not only suitable for purchasing tickets, but also allows additional services to be obtained."
The railway operator further said that it plans to test demand for bitcoin sales over a two-year period.
There will be limits to the service, according to the report. SBB won’t accept bitcoin payments for tickets, for example, and there will reportedly be a CHF 5000 annual cap on purchases, which isn’t listed on the website. SBB will also reportedly charge a 6% transaction fee at the time of purchase.
The SBB trial perhaps reflects the cultural experiment taking place in some parts of Switzerland. In May, the city of Zug, Switzerland announced that it would accept bitcoin payments for public services.
Financial firms in the country have also moved to test applications of blockchain, and last month, the chief of the Swiss central bank said that the system has been “turned on its head” by the technology.
The Plot Thickens As DAO Attacker Trades Stolen Funds for...
With Zcash Launch, Blockchain Enters the Age of Anonymity
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:00 | Michael del Castillo
The Swiss Government is Paving the Way for Crypto Banks
Regulators in Switzerland are moving quickly to create regulation that accommodates digital currency and blockchain startups.
Nov 2, 2016 at 16:37 | Stan Higgins
Switzerland is moving to regulate bitcoin and blockchain tech.
Oct 31, 2016 at 12:55 | Michael del Castillo
For Blockchain Startups, Switzerland's 'Crypto Valley' is No New York
A tiny province in Switzerland is proving a magnet for blockchain startups
Oct 5, 2016 at 12:21 | Michael del Castillo
How Switzerland's First Financial Markets Blockchain Was Born
A prototype currently being developed by Six Securities provides one of the first examples of how FMIs are investigating blockchain.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.