Airbitz and WINGS Partnership Integrates Edge Security into the Next-Generation of Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAO)
Français Media Partners About Us Blog Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google+
Airbitz and WINGS Partnership Integrates Edge Security into the Next-Generation of Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAO)
WINGS will integrate Edge Security to Decentralize Private Key Security and Help Make DAOs Accessible to the Mainstream
SAN DIEGO, CA--(Marketwired - Nov 2, 2016) - Airbitz (airbitz.co), the Bitcoin wallet provider and creator of the Edge Security SDK, and WINGS (wings.ai), a decentralized platform to create, join and manage decentralized autonomous organizations, today announced their partnership to enable a new generation of DAOs for Bitcoin and other blockchains. The partnership provides WINGS with Airbitz Edge Security to make the private key management of DAO participants more frictionless and secure. 
DAOs are a new organizational form that allow for trustless contracts between globally distributed participants, bringing another level of productivity and efficiency to projects that can span across borders. WINGS combines the DAO concept with decision-making using decentralized forecast markets, while making all of this easily accessible to anyone with a smart phone. With WINGS project backers know that DAO technology and forecast markets give projects an added success factor.
Airbitz allows users to securely access a multi-blockchain world using a frictionless, single sign-on experience -- all while retaining complete control over their private keys and authentication. Developers can now leverage the Airbitz open-source Edge Security SDK for their decentralized apps, instead of having to create their own security solutions from scratch.
"We're excited to partner with Airbitz and offer this to the WINGS DAO community," said Boris Povod, WINGS Core Developer. "Airbitz lets people easily interact with DAOs using stored encrypted private keys, and anyone can login simply with a username/password." 
"WINGS, much like Airbitz, is committed to delivering a user-friendly experience for people interested in using blockchain assets in their applications," said Airbitz CEO Paul Puey. "Our partnership with WINGS will make interacting with the next generation of DAOs a seamless and accessible experience. We're proud to add WINGS to the growing list of premier blockchain apps powered by Airbitz Edge Security."
Airbitz is equity funding its current financing round via Wefunder.com for non-accredited investors, and on BnkToTheFuture for accredited investors. To date, Airbitz has raised over $440,000 from more than 200 different investors. To participate in Airbitz's equity funding campaign, please visit: https://airbitz.co/#funding
To learn more about Airbitz's Edge Security SDK, please visit: https://airbitz.co
To learn more about WINGS, please visit: https://wings.ai
Airbitz is a single sign-on platform for securing blockchain technology and other private applications. The Airbitz blockchain-inspired, zero-knowledge data security solution uses 'Edge Security' technology, enabling end users to secure their data without trust in third party providers. Focused on ease-of-use and ease of security, Airbitz delivers software, services, and products with an amazing user experience, both visually and functionally, simplifying advanced technology and delivering it to the masses while still retaining core principles of decentralization and privacy. Airbitz is headquartered in San Diego, California. For more information, visit the Company's Web site at airbitz.co.
WINGS is a decentralized team of blockchain professionals aiming to bring the decentralized autonomous organizations to the mainstream. WINGS makes DAO technology accessible to entrepreneurs and companies who are looking to leverage the power of swarm intelligence powered forecast markets for higher quality decision-making, the versatility of smart contracts for a global decentralized agreement framework, and the ease of use of the instant messengers for audience reach. For more information, visit the WINGS website at wings.ai.
Copyright ©2016 Nasdaq, Inc. All rights reserved. Legal