Bitcoin Price Maintains Strong Momentum, Hits $750 Mark | FxPips.com
/ Bitcoin News / CryptoCurrency News / Forex News / Market News / News / Bitcoin Price Maintains Strong Momentum, Hits $750 Mark
Bitcoin Price Maintains Strong Momentum, Hits $750 Mark
POSTED BY DAVID RED ON NOVEMBER 18, 2016 AT 9:00 AM
Bitcoin Price Maintains Strong Momentum, Hits $750 Mark
Fxpips.com – BITCOIN has consistently maintained a solid pattern of gains in the past few sessions courtesy of growing demand from digital currency players in the Asian market.
The Bitstamp Price Index (BPI) registered a peak of $749.98, rising from a high of $740 on Thursday after a frenetic trade where its price climbed four percent from from $714.87 to $739.02 in just half-hour duration.
Keeping its impressive run for more advances, the most sought-after cryptocurrency was trading at $739.49 to the U.S. greenback at midnight coordinated universal time. It was up $745.69 prior to ending a steady chart in a 2-hour trading session between 02:25 and 04:25. Today’s peak of $749.49 took place just before noon.
A series of key financial as well as geo-political developments among the globe’s largest economies in the last weeks have been noted as the causes for the cryptocurrency’s price rally as demand for the Bitcoin steadily rises.
  Attendants pose with a bitcoin sign during the opening of Hong Kong’s first bitcoin retail store February 28, 2014. REUTERS/Bobby
India, the second most populated country in the world – a rapidly growing economy – is still nursing from the aftermath of the government’s declaration of banning the use of of its 500 and 1000 currency notes. These legal tender comprises almost 90 percent of the country’s entire currency in circulation, and boosting bitcoin’s domestic appeal.
China’s clout in the digital currency trading can not be stressed clearly enough, as the largest trading market for the cryptocurrency the world over. According to latest update, the Chinese yuan is weakening for many months. It fell to a new 8-year low versus the U.S. dollar, with the Chinese federal reserve trimming down its reference rate for the 9th straight session.
Outlook for China’s bitcoin entrepreneurs – who have been seeking some semblance of security from Bitcoin as a store of value – are not as rosy either. And the controversial win of Donald Trump in this year’s U.S. polls, is likewise giving Chinese businessmen doubts.
Trump, during his campaign sorties, continually lashed out at China for intentionally devaluating its own currency to allegedly take a strong headstart in the world market with its exports.
Regardless, the result in China and India has been generally unchanged: when consumers had to deal with stringent government financial laws on their use of money, they turn to virtual currency like Bitcoin.
Trade 24 Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
Trading Banks Demo Account Real Account Read Reviews
Zcash, the New Cryptocurrency, Makes “Deafening” Entry, Threatens Bitcoin, Ethereum
Company Earnings Report, as of Nov. 4, 2016
ABOUT US CONTACT US PRIVACY POLICY ADVERTISE SITEMAP PARTNERS
Risk Disclaimer: Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk, and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading, and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.