Former School Board member to plead guilty for bribery
 Michael Murgio, former member of the Palm Beach County School Board, is scheduled to plead guilty for making a false statement to the New Jersey National Credit Union, according to new court documents. WPEC
PALM BEACH GARDENS (CBS12) — Michael Murgio, former member of the Palm Beach County School Board, is scheduled to plead guilty for making a false statement to the New Jersey National Credit Union, according to new court documents.
"Mr. Murgio regrets this lapse in judgement and has accepted full responsibility for his actions," Murgio's lawyer, Stuart Kaplan said in a released statement. "(He) is looking forward to putting this chapter of his life behind him."
The change of plea hearing is scheduled to take place on Thursday at 2 p.m.
Murgio was arrested by the FBI on April 21st. He was named in a superseding indictment in connection with a federal case against his son, Anthony R. Murgio.
The FBI alleges a business run by Murgio's son, Anthony Murgio, was unlicensed and utilized to knowingly launder money from illegal enterprises.
Authorities arrested the younger Murio in July 2015, accusing him of operating a Bitcoin operation with another defendant, Yuri Lebedev.
Michael Murgio was indicted in New York in April and charged with bribing a New Jersey credit union. Federal agents say the move enabled Murgio's son's illegal operation involving the unregulated internet currency Bitcoin.
Murgio wass a board member for District 1 of the Palm Beach County School Board. He served as a school principal for 20 years in Palm Beach County's North area schools which included Jerry Thomas Elementary, Lake Park Elementary, West Riviera Elementary and Inlet Grove High School, according to his bio.
Drug test results for accused face-biting killer Austin Harrouff…
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Build…
28 Irish Baby Names You'll Want to Steal
Students, principal complained about erratic driving before fatal school bus crash
Freight train plows into abandoned SUV in Okeechobee
Boy calls 911 to invite deputies to Thanksgiving dinner
Graphic Video: Florida man runs over brother in parking lot fight
Rescue Goat Suffering From Anxiety Only Calms Down In Her Duck Outfit
'Make America Great Again' ornament can be yours for $149
Police department warns drunk drivers about consequences in viral tweet
© 2016  WPEC | Portions are © 2016 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or distributed.
WPEC CBS 12 provides local news, weather, sports, traffic and entertainment for West Palm Beach and nearby towns and communities in South Florida including the Palm Beaches and Treasure Coast, serving Stuart, Royal Palm Beach, Fort Pierce, Vero Beach, Port St. Lucie, Okeechobee, Jupiter, Palm Beach Gardens, Wellington, Delray Beach, Boca Raton, Lake Worth, Boynton Beach, Greenacres, Belle Glade, Palm Beach, and Riviera Beach.