Bitcoin Price $800 Imminent; Boosted by China Capital Outflows - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Price $800 Imminent; Boosted by China Capital Outflows
As capital outflow from China continues to increase, the possibility of Bitcoin reaching $800 seems to be more than ever. Read more...
Bitcoin has been going strong since the past few weeks. The cryptocurrency which was priced at around $640 in mid-October has surged past the $700 mark and now stands at $725, after falling to $690 briefly over the weekend. At the current pace, the price of Bitcoin reaching $800 is imminent.
As to the reason behind the recent increase in price, the largest since June 2016 is the constant demand for Bitcoin in the Chinese market.  Lately, China has been witnessing an increased capital outflow despite strict capital controls. According to available data, the country is leaking money for over two straight years due to weakening yuan. China’s foreign exchange reserves are said to be plummeting at a drastic pace as more people rush to buying foreign assets.
Most of the capital outflows are attributed to two factors: one, where the exporters from the mainland are keeping their money in offshore, and the other where people are buying Bitcoin to prevent their assets from depreciating with yuan; and also for cross-border investments and transactions.
With an estimated total of over $573.2 billion in the capital outflow from China this year (Citigroup Global Markets’ estimate), the half yearly numbers stood at around $286 billion. If the actual figures are in any way going to match the estimated numbers, then the demand for alternate currencies like Bitcoin is expected to only go up during the last two months of 2016.
Last month, Goldman Sachs warned China stating that the country’s outflows may be worse than it appears to be. As yuan hit a 6-year low in October, the country continues to tighten its capital controls which may have driven not just the individuals and investors but also corporates to Bitcoin as the fear of depreciation looms over Chinese yuan.
The continued increase in demand for Bitcoin from various segments of the Chinese population will continue to reflect in the upward movement of the digital currency’s price. It is just a matter of time before Bitcoin reaches $800 mark.
Ref: WSJ |CNBC | Forbes | Bloomberg |Image: NewsBTC | Charts: CoinMarketCap | Trading Economics 
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.