MGT Capital implements phase two of bitcoin mining operations - EconoTimes
FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
BTC/SGD faces strong support at 23.6% fibo, good to buy on dips
BTC/GBP takes support at 21-DMA, break below targets 550
FxWirePro: ETH/EUR faces strong support 8 level, good to sell on rallies
MGT Capital implements phase two of bitcoin mining operations
MGT Capital Investments, Inc. announced that it has begun to implement phase two of its bitcoin operation that is scheduled to expand its processing power to over five PetaHash by the end of the fourth quarter, this year.
According to the official announcement, MGT has updated its shareholders on its fully-owned large-scale bitcoin mining operation in central Washington State. The company has mined more than 90 bitcoins and is pleased to have delivered on the metrics that was outlined on 13th September 2016.
"I wish to thank our shareholders for the positive feedback we have received since completing the first phase of our Bitcoin project. Our machines have been working flawlessly at full potential with a very high level of efficiency. We are excited and ready for the expansion of this activity as we implement the second planned phase," Robert Collazo, Director of Operations for MGT's Bitcoin mining operations said.
The strategy has been successfully implemented by MGT in order to maximize profits from mining operations. This is done by capitalizing on low-cost hydroelectricity and making use of proprietary software to optimize and manage its machine performances.
Additionally, the company is making use of state-of-the-art 16 nanometer ASIC chips and more efficient power supplies, thus further reducing the power requirements of mining operations.
"The cash flow opportunity in the Bitcoin market provides tremendous financial benefit to our operations and balance sheet. At our current output, we believe MGT is one of the top five Bitcoin miners in the U.S., and we believe our first quarter 2017 goal of 10 PetaHash for this facility would place MGT in a leadership position in the global Bitcoin network,” John McAfee, Executive Chairman of MGT stated.
Earlier in July, MGT revealed the details of the initial phase of a large-scale bitcoin mining operation to establish the company as a leader in blockchain technologies.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close below 14.01 targets 14.70 - EconoTimes
New Finger Camera Tech Helps Blind People Read Printed Words
Princess Leia Memory Wave Helps The Brain Better Store Memory
Terrorism And AI Mix Seems Inevitable, Spells Disaster
Biological vs chronological age: how old are you really?
Watch: Virtual Reality Training For Police To Help Reduce Shootings
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
Why batteries have started catching fire so often
AI Should Get Credit For Its Inventions Law Expert Says
Elon Musk: Advanced Artificial Intelligence Could Destroy The Internet
DIY networking: the path to a more democratic internet
Samsung Banking On Foldable Phone Revolution, Patent Published
Market-moving news and views, 24 hours a day >
240m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
240m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
241m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
241m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
241m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Tech City UK to deliver HM Treasury's fintech measures
FxWirePro: AUD/NZD bulls in intermediated trend rebuild positive momentum, major trend drives in non-directional, upswings implied by interest rate
FxWirePro: USD/TWD exhibits range bound movement, bias remains neutral
UK Q3 GDP shows high resilience post-Brexit, Q4 could see positive surprise
What can obesity control learn from tobacco control's success?
US Election Series: Jill Stein raises $4.5 million to challenge election outcome
Study Says Practice Tests Help Maintain Memory Condition During Exams
National Bank of Malawi chooses fintech firm NetGuardians for fraud prevention
FxWirePro:USD/CHF forms Bearish Bat pattern, good to sell on rallies
FxWirePro: GBP/USD faces strong resistance at 1.2530, good to sell on rallies
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says...
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close...
Bitfinex spokesman resigns due to ‘insane conspiracy theories’ - Econo...
Vdice is neither provably fair or decentralised.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1646783.ms...more
When Blockchain and Decentralization Disrupt Gambling - EconoTimes
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
MAS and R3 partner to carry out blockchain-based inter-bank payments -...
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
December US Fed Interest Rate Hike – First of Many? - EconoTimes
You do know his character's name is Steve, don't you? ;)
‘Hawaii Five-O’ Season 7, Episode 9 Spoilers: "Two Days in November" –...
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
MHI/YouGov Survey Finds Americans’ Joys, Anxieties About Thanksgiving Are...
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
BTC/EUR faces strong resistance around 715, break above targets 740 - ...
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR remains well supported below 14.50 mark, sustained close...
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
Thank you very much for these daily articles on the USD/ZAR pair!
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR hits fresh 2-month high at 14.56, faces strong resistance...
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
The huge political cost of Blair's decision to allow Eastern European migrants...
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
India likely to witness a weak Q4 on adverse demonetization effects, says...
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
Bitcoin and blockchain investment activity drops in Q3 2016 - EconoTim...
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
Deutsche Bank turmoil shows risks of weakening bank capital standards -...
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
How can we prevent type 2 diabetes in children? - EconoTimes