Ahead of Diwali, India Bitcoin startups Unocoin, Zebpay and Coinsecure mine new investments
Ahead of Diwali, India Bitcoin startups Unocoin, Zebpay and Coinsecure mine new investments
With the highest remittance rate in the world, India might have the perfect storm of expertise and demand to become a strong hub for Bitcoin and blockchain-based tech
Zebpay, a Bitcoin wallet provider based in India, is raising a new funding round between US$4 million and US$5 million, following a US$1 million seed investment the company got earlier this year.
Like a number of new fintech and e-commerce startups in India and Southeast Asia, the company is tying mobile payments to personal mobile phone accounts, given the high rate of unbanked and underbanked individuals in India.
Zebpay is negotiating with a leading U.S. venture capital fund, according to the Economic Times, but it is not the only company in India currently raising new money for its operations.
Given India’s mix of IT know-how, rising focus on cybersecurity, large number of businesspeople working abroad and historically unbanked population, there is great interest in incorporating the use of cryptocurrencies into the Indian digital economy.
Zebpay, founded as BuySellBitco.in in 2012, is integrating Bitcoin into mobile payment services for Indian customers of Flipkart, Amazon and MakeMyTrip. Some Zebpay-backed promotions bring significant discounts to customers.
The company boasts 130,000 users, up from 25,000 just this January, according to SiliconANGLE. This round also included two Indian investors, whom the company has not identified.
“The environment in India for cryptocurrency is extremely positive, and we are planning to utilize the amount to promote bitcoins as a reliable currency and investment option,” co-founder Saurabh Agrawal told CryptoCoinse News after the seed round earlier this year.
Also Read: Indian Bitcoin startup Unocoin raises US$1.5M funding
Some are predicting a Bitcoin surge over Diwali, the upcoming annual Hindu festival, as consumer sales skyrocket. But all countries have holidays and excuses to buy gifts. There are some unique factors behind the rise of the coin in Bangalore, Mumbai and New Delhi.
India saw another recent Bitcoin investment in the US$1.5 million round of Bangalore-and-Tumkur-based Unocoin, which boasts 100,000 users and 30 employees, according to Bitcoin Magazine. That round was led by Blume Ventures, with funds also coming from Boost VC, FundersClub, Digital Currency Group and Bank to the Future.
“India has the largest gold, inward remittance and IT markets in the world — all of which make it a perfect home for Bitcoin and Blockchain technology,” Unocoin CEO Sathvik Vishwanath said after raising the round, explaining what he clearly sees as a perfect opportunity to let India take a bigger chunk of the global Bitcoin industry.
The statement is backed up by the World Bank, which names India as the global leader in receipt of remittances.
Other local startups in the space include BTCXIndia and Delhi-based Coinsecure. The latter raised its own US$ 1.2 million seed round in April and is currently hunting for “US$ 3.5-3.8 million in the next few months,” the Economic Times reports Coinsecure co-founder Benson Samuel as saying.
Coinsecure also recently announced a Bitcoin partnership with OKLink, an offshoot of China-based OKCoin, to take advantage of the remittance market in India.
“Specifically, P2P lending and remittances are the current trends in the Indian Fintech space,” stated a recent report by NASSCOM and KPMG.
“Slowly a clutch of companies are beginning to look at robo-advice and bank-in-a-box as new investment avenues. Blockchain is an emerging tech-mammoth and has the potential for mass market implementation in the future,” it read.
The unbanked population makes the payments startup scene a strong one in southern Asia, where arrangements like Zebpay’s are becoming common. That also has aroused interest in Blockchain technology from India’s fintech companies, including P2P lenders Faircent, i-lend and MicroGraam.
The Boston Consulting Group said in July it expects the Indian digital payments market to reach US$500 billion by 2020. That unique payments environment played a role in the recent US$ 130 million acquisition of Pune-based Citrus Pay, whose sale indicates the payments market is maturing after Indian government efforts to reduce the number of unbanked residents.
Also Read: How Bitcoin is doing in Indonesia, and its opportunities as an investment commodity
It remains to be seen whether these four companies are just the tip of the iceberg and whether India can harness its manpower to challenge established Bitcoin centers like fintech powerhouse London.
But the demand and know-how are there, so there is a real opportunity for India to turn itself into a new hub for a very important vertical.
The article Ahead of Diwali, India bitcoin startups Unocoin, Zebpay and Coinsecure mine new investments first appeared on Geektime.
Unocoin is a "Simple, Safe and Secure" Way of Buying, Selling, Sending, Receiving and Storing Bitcoins in India.
Zebpay is the fastest and easiest way to Buy and Sell Bitcoins in India.
They are a team of passionate Bitcoin enthusiasts who have come together to build some amazing products to make it easier for Bitcoin users across India.
Building the foundation of the bitcoin and blockchain technology industry by launching, incubating, and investing in amazing companies.
Funded Startups: Unocoin, BitFlyer, BitX, Abra, Melotic, Unocoin, Abra, Ripple
Loading Next Article: After migme's acquisition, Shopdeca and Sportdeca will remain focused on Indonesian market
Want to be a thought leader in Asia's tech ecosystem? Share your thoughts and ideas.
Have an idea, want to send us a tip or a pitch? Share it with us
New Singaporean co-working space has just raised the largest seed round in Southeast Asia
The power of proximity: Singapore launches SGInnovate to foster a culture of collaborative innovation
Singapore's Patsnap that provides IP analytics and visualisation tools to NASA raises Series C
In Pics: Why Zoho runs an office in a village that doesn't have even street lights
Southeast Asia is the next e-commerce wonderland: DHL eCommerce CEO Charles Brewer
2nd World Congress on Materials Science, Polymer Engineering, and Microtechnologies
Modern Business Conference - unlock your Digital Transformation
WE HAVE A WINNER! CHECK OUT VIETNAM'S TOP100 REP DESIGNBOLD!
2016 © E27 (Entrepreneurs 27). All Rights Reserved.