Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Downtrend Intact
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Showing Positive Signs
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Trend Bearish
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Buyers Make It?
ViaBTC Receives Mysterious 210 Bitcoin Deposit To Cloud Mining Address
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Press Release: WorldCoinIndex is the one-stop platform for fast, reliable price information featuring over 400 cryptocurrencies on more than 35 exchange platforms.
October 17, 2016, Netherlands – The WorldCoinIndex is proud to present its blockchain market data resource platform to the global cryptocurrency community. The platform offers reliable, real-time price information and the latest news updates for over 400 listed cryptocurrencies. It allows users to access a wide range of data points from over 35 different cryptocurrency exchanges and track cryptocurrency prices in all major fiat currencies such as USD, euro and yuan.
Blockchain based cryptocurrencies has gained tremendous popularity which has led to increased cryptocurrency prices and market capitalizations. As the global fiat market continues to recognize Bitcoin as the main cryptocurrency, the Bitcoin price index calculates each market individually. The Bitcoin Price Index on WorldCoinIndex serves as a base for all other cryptocurrency price indexes, such as the Ethereum price index.
Launched in 2014, WorldCoinIndex has been serving the cryptocurrency community for almost three years. The cryptocurrency ecosystem remains fragmented, caused by multiple exchanges with volatile prices and trade volumes; WorldCoinIndex’s main mission is to simplify the process of picking the right exchange at the right time. The platform has gradually expanded its list of cryptocurrency information offering by adding new tradable cryptocurrencies and functionalities on a regular basis. As for the index formula WorldCoinIndex use an average weighted price of all cryptocurrencies across all the supported exchanges.
With the increasing maturity of blockchain technology and the growth of the cryptocurrency market, WorldCoinIndex is also improving cryptocurrency market data. The recent upgrades allow WorldCoinIndex to deliver real-time live stream price information. Processing real-time quotes are important for the cryptocurrency market, that is finally catching up to the standards of fiat stock and fx markets. For traders, real-time quotes can make a difference as even the smallest time discrepancy between a provided quote and the real-time situation can change a profitable trade into a loss. Real-time data improves their ability to react quickly and enhance investment returns, making WorldCoinIndex the most powerful cryptocurrency index tool on the market.
WorldCoinIndex is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only. The information does not constitute investment advice or an offer to invest.
Bitcoin PR Buzz has been proudly serving the PR and marketing needs of Bitcoin and digital currency tech start-ups for over 2 years. Get your own professional Bitcoin and digital currency Press Release. Click here for more information.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.