Derivatives Giant CME Sets Launch Date for Bitcoin Indexes - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Derivatives Giant CME Sets Launch Date for Bitcoin Indexes
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 27, 2016 at 20:03 GMT
The CME Group is launching two previously announced bitcoin price indexes next month.
The exchange services operator said in a notice this week that its CME CF Bitcoin Reference Rate and CME CF Bitcoin Real Time Index will launch on 13th November. The CME CF Bitcoin Reference Rate, according to the firm, will provide price settlement updates after 15:00 UTC each day.
The goal, CME said, is to give clients a reliable reference rate price source for "digital assets" or cryptographic assets that trade on a blockchain.
The benchmarks are being offered in partnership with UK-based Crypto Facilities. Announced in May, they will draw price data from bitcoin exchanges in Asia, Europe and North America.
CME has been testing the products since last month, and was expected to launch sometime in November. The move reflects a positive outlook on digital asset markets – something that CME executives have remarked on in past public appearances.
Disclosure: CME Group is an investor in Digital Currency Group, of which CoinDesk is a subsidiary.
SBI to Launch First Bank-Backed Digital Currency Exchange
The Plot Thickens As DAO Attacker Trades Stolen Funds for...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 14, 2016 at 15:55 | Stan Higgins
The CME Group officially launched its bitcoin price indexes yesterday.
Oct 4, 2016 at 19:57 | Stan Higgins
Bill Gross: Central Banks Are Pushing Investors to Bitcoin
Risky markets and incapable central banks could drive investors into the arms of bitcoin, asset manager Bill Gross opined in a recent note.
Sep 28, 2016 at 16:08 | Pete Rizzo
CME Group Adds New Exchange to Bitcoin Index
CME Group has added China-based digital currency exchange OKCoin to its bitcoin pricing indexes, first announced in May.
Sep 5, 2016 at 14:01 | Michael del Castillo
Bank Veterans Raise $1.5 Million for Digital Asset Startup
Digital asset trading service Crypto Facilities has raised $1.5m in new funding.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.