Historic Bitcoin Local Radio Ad Campaign Launches in Keene! | Free Keene
Historic Bitcoin Local Radio Ad Campaign Launches in Keene!
by Ian | Oct 10, 2016 | Audio, Bitcoin, Economic Freedom, International, National, New Hampshire, News, Outreach | 6 comments
Bitcoin Ads to Air 3p-6a on The Peak, Daily!
The Shire Free Church launched our Bitcoin Vending Machines in Keene and Manchester with the intention of spreading Bitcoin in furtherance of our mission to foster peace. With both machines now fully paid for, phase two of our outreach project has begun – advertising Bitcoin on local media!
Keene is unique in that it has a higher bitcoin-accepting-business-per-capita ratio than even San Francisco, the purported #1 city for bitcoin-accepting businesses. As you’ll hear in the radio ads, bitcoin is a powerful local currency that can also be used internationally. “It’s Keene to buy local”, and Bitcoin empowers local business owners to keep more from each sale, rather than sending three percent outside of the area to credit card companies.
The Peak’s Three FM Transmitters from Keene to Western Vermont
That means more money staying here in the Keene area, which benefits the entire community.
In addition, the first ad in the series specifically mentions several local mom-and-pop businesses that are accepting bitcoin, at no cost to those businesses. The entire budget for the ad campaign, which starts on October 10th, is directly sourced from our bitcoin vending efforts.
The first ad will start immediately and the second ad will be put in rotation a few weeks in. The first ad is an introduction to Bitcoin for the Keene area consumer and the second targets local business owners. Here they are:
“The Peak” (heard on 101.9 WKKN-FM Keene, 100.7 WTHK-FM Wilmington, VT, and 104.7 W284AB Jamaica, VT) will be the only radio stations where the ads will be heard for now, as we can’t afford to air them on every local station. The Peak seemed like the best choice as its “Adult Album Alternative” music format and local branding likely attracts listeners who deeply appreciate the buy local message. Listeners will be able to hear the Bitcoin ads multiple times from 3p-6a, seven days a week, starting today.
This is a historic moment for Bitcoin. While Bitcoin has had radio ads in the past, they were purchased (by Roger Ver aka “Bitcoin Jesus”) on my radio show, Free Talk Live and its network, LRN.FM. Though FTL is heard on over 160 radio stations, this Keene ad campaign marks the first time bitcoin has ever been promoted heavily in one geographic area via one of the oldest forms of media, radio. Stay tuned here to Free Keene for the latest from the bitcoin capital of the New Hampshire and maybe even the world, Keene.
If you’re a bitcoiner who’d like to contribute to this ad run, please send bitcoin to 137bAdkwoqzVMoR6WUR6Qn9vqvuG991wFH
Now you can subscribe to Free Keene via email!
Using bitcoin doesn't keep a business from paying taxes.
it will be mostly heard by vermont....i thought fk was for nh
I don't know how you can call this historic. I have seen advertisements on TV and heard a couple on the radio advertising bitcoin.
So this little add campaign remains in your freekeener circle. Not much progress.  
Enter your email address to subscribe to Free Keene and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Free Keene is accepting Bitcoin and DOZENS of Altcoins!
Moved here and Introduction November 18, 2016 @pm_radio
Cynthia on "Mary's Land" intro November 17, 2016 @given-cynthia
Robin Hood of Keene’s Final NH Supreme Court Hearing – VIDEO November 24, 2016
State Rep Amanda Bouldin Snitches on Fellow Libertarians, Kyle Tasker November 23, 2016
Citizen Cain – 13 – Some Relief November 21, 2016
LPNH EC adopts resolution in support of peaceful secession November 20, 2016
Speeding Ticket Trial Video: Steven Johnson November 20, 2016
Documentary Focusing on NH’s Liberty Movement Celebrates Two Years & Over 115,000 Views! November 17, 2016
Manchester Drivers Mobilize With Cell 411 November 17, 2016
Fundraiser Launched for Manchester Shooting Victim November 16, 2016
Citizen Cain – 12 – Pretty Blue November 14, 2016
WMUR-TV’s Amy Coveno Assaults Independent Reporter on Video November 14, 2016
Send your Keene-area news tips to multiple Free Keene bloggers via this email:
Free Keene Contact Info | Join the Shire Society Forum