Global VC-backed fintech funding drops in Q3'16 to $2.4b, Asia bucks the trend
India: E-wallet firm Paytm backs online consultation platform TapChief
Payments startup Stripe valued at $9b in new funding
Seraphim Capital to raise $100m early stage space-sector fund
Global VC-backed fintech funding drops in Q3’16 to $2.4b, Asia bucks trend
Amidst the ongoing funding crunch in VC-backed fintech investments, which fell 17 per cent at $2.4 billion in the third quarter of this year, Asia has bucked the trend with an increase in funding on a quarterly basis, though with a lower number of deals.
‘The Pulse of Fintech Report’ from KPMG and CB insights released Wednesday states that fintech deal activity world over fell 12 per cent to 178 deals in Q3 compared to the previous quarter, as investors hold back on making major investments amid ongoing market uncertainty.
“Of the three main regions covered by this report, only Asia saw an increase in VC funding to fintech companies quarter-over-quarter, from $800 million in Q2’16 to $1.2 billion in Q3’16. Asia-based fintech companies also attracted the most total investment compared to the other regions,” it said.
Meanwhile, the United States led the number of fintech deals in Q3’16 with 96 compared to 38 deals in Europe and 35 in Asia, indicating that the average deal size in both North America and Europe was significantly lower compared to Asia.
With regard to Europe, fintech funding was on pace to drop below 2015 levels: Q3’16 saw European fintech deals fall 17 per cent on a quarterly basis. Fintech funding in Europe dropped 43 per cent on a quarterly basis, with $233 million invested in Q3’16. Moreover, no European fintech mega-rounds was seen in Q3’16 and when it came to VC-backed fintech companies, Europe has yet to see a $50 million+ financing round in 2016.
The drop-off in fintech investment in the third quarter of this year is in part also due to a lack of $1 billion+ mega-deals, which have helped prop up the numbers in previous quarters.
For instance, the first quarter of this year had $1 billion+ funding rounds to JD Finance and Lu.com, which represented almost half of Q1’s total fintech investment while the top two funding rounds this quarter involved $449 million to Qufengi and $310 million to 51xinyongka.
“This trend suggests that despite the drop in VC funding, fintech remains a strong focus for the broader investment community,” the report noted.
Over the past year, Asia has dominated the fintech investment scene with nearly as much investment in the first three quarters of 2016 as in all of 2015.
China-based fintech companies have done especially well, with unicorn companies such as Ant Financial, JD Finance and Lufax continuing to grow and attract investment both domestically and globally.
Among the top Deals in China during the quarter were Qufenqi $449 million /Series F, 51Xinyongka $310 million / Series C and Firstp2p $70 million / Series C. In terms of cities, the maximum number of deals were in Shanghai with 4 Deals worth $82 million with Beijing at two deals worth $464 million and Hangzhou with two deals worth $333 million.
Payments continues to drive fintech investment in China. Fintech investment in China continues to thrive, with over $1 billion in funding during Q3’16. Investors continue to focus more on payments and lending, although areas like InsurTech are starting to gain traction.
“Unlike many other jurisdictions, China has embraced a shift toward using mobile to make small transactions, with many retailers not accepting cash at all. Given the pace of acceptance for online payment models, it is not surprising to see such a high focus on payments and marketplace lending in the country,” said the report.
Meanwhile, the Chinese government released new regulations related to peer-to-peer (P2P) lending in Q3’16 which include changes to what is expected of P2P companies in terms of behavior and operations. Over the next quarter or two, it is expected that these regulations will have an impact.
Another large market in Asia in terms of size, India, witnessed a decline in investment as investors focus on higher-quality deals.
However, the report pointed out that despite a decrease in funding during Q3’16, the outlook for fintech investment in India remains strong and payments technologies continue to be a key focus for investment.
“Unlike in other areas of the world, investment in lending solutions is still going strong in India. A number of fintechs are now partnering with banks, either acting as lead generation for them or offering ‘white label’ platforms so that banks can provide their own services,” said Head of Fintech, KPMG in India Neha Punater.
The Indian government has been a key driver in the development of a common payments platform in India. This platform has already gone live at some banks although the impact of the platform has yet to be seen.
Lending, mobile wallets and robo advisory technologies are also keen investment areas in India. More and more fintech companies are partnering with banks to provide either lead generation or ‘white label’ service platforms.
The rest of Asia, specially Asean, is not far behind. In fact, jurisdictions in Asia are playing ‘follow the leader’ on sandbox initiatives. Over the past few quarters, the regulatory sandbox approach has taken hold in Asia.
In Q3’16, Hong Kong launched a regulatory sandbox for financial technology innovation in the banking sector, following on the heels of Australia and Singapore. Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand are also moving in this direction. There seems to be a collegial feeling toward such efforts in Asia.
In Q4, for example, Singapore is hosting a regulatory boot camp focused on helping less mature jurisdictions understand what regulatory structures they need, in order to foster greater innovation in fintech.
As a leader in the region, Singapore is shaping into forward-thinking fintech hub. Being one of the first jurisdictions to implement a regulatory fintech sandbox, Singapore is quickly shaping up to be a major fintech hot spot. Strong VC hubs like Hong Kong, in addition to less mature markets like Thailand, are keeping a close eye on Singapore’s regulatory leadership and using it to shape their own fintech supports.
The fintech focus in the region is expansive, with blockchain and telematics being key areas of investment. Singapore’s fintech accelerator model is also evolving rapidly to a corporate accelerator model, focused on mature startups and technology production and implementation.
Further, the report pointed out that the future of fintech remains positive from an investment perspective, with an uptick expected in 2017, if not in Q4’16. “Investors are expected to become more confident as the immediate ramifications associated with Brexit ease and uncertainties in the US stabilize,” it added.
Consequently, investors will begin to deploy capital that has been deferred over the past few quarters. Over the next few quarters, artificial intelligence is expected to gain more investor attention in addition to RegTech, InsurTech and data and analytics.
At the same time, fintech areas that have emerged over the past year (particularly blockchain) may receive more scrutiny as investors assess when and if investments will deliver returns.
As Co-Leader, KPMG Enterprise Innovative Startups Network, and National Co-Lead Partner, KPMG Venture Capital Practice, KPMG US Brian Hughes put it, “There is a lot of liquidity in the market as well as a continued demand for fintech innovation by the large financial institutions”.
As such, these financial institutions will continue to look for ways to embrace the promise of these innovations through a number of different avenues, including partnerships, direct investment and merger and acquisition transactions, he added.
Singapore sees Brexit as chance to recruit London’s FinTech talent
Marvelstone Group-backed fintech centre Lattice80 opens in Singapore
India: Payment firms account for 50% fintech startup buyouts in 2016
Australia regulator monitoring big banks buying fintech startups
Tags: Asia fintech funding The Pulse of Fintech Report venture capital
India: E-wallet firm Paytm backs online consultation platform TapChief
Payments startup Stripe valued at $9b in new funding
Seraphim Capital to raise $100m early stage space-sector fund
China: Shengtong Printing buys RoboRobo; Tencent backs 2 startups
About Us Advertise Contact Us Privacy Policy Careers