Visa to Launch Blockchain Payments Service Next Year - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Visa to Launch Blockchain Payments Service Next Year
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 21, 2016 at 16:53 GMT
Visa has announced new details about a forthcoming business-to-business payments service developed in partnership with blockchain startup Chain.
Dubbed Visa B2B Connect, the near real-time settlement platform is aimed at providing a more secure, transparent mechanism for businesses making payments via Visa’s netowrk.
That the two firms would co-develop a platform for payments is perhaps unsurprising given their existing relationship and the fact that Visa was took part in Chain’s $30m funding round, announced last September. The credit card giant has made other blockchain tests related to payments public in the past year.
Jim McCarthy, Visa’s executive vice president for innovation and strategic partnerships, said in a statement:
"The time has never been better for the global business community to take advantage of new payment technologies and improve some of the most fundamental processes needed to run their businesses. We are developing our new solution to give our financial institution partners an efficient, transparent way for payments to be made across the world."
Visa didn’t provide an exact launch date for the new service, describing today’s move as a "preview". However, the company said that it will look to begin piloting the service in 2017.
Disclosure: CoinDesk is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which has an ownership stake in Chain. 
UBS Names Former APAC CTO New Blockchain Lead
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Oct 24, 2016 at 08:03 | Pete Rizzo
In Milestone Release, Chain Open-Sources its Blockchain Tech
Chain is officially open-sourcing its blockchain platform, Chain Protocol, a move its CEO says represents the culmination of years of work.
Jun 13, 2016 at 16:32 | Akin Fernandez
Why Central Banks Will Fail at Digital Currency
Azteco owner Akin Fernandez explains why he believes a recent presentation at the US Federal Reserve did not properly represent the technology.
May 2, 2016 at 14:00 | Pete Rizzo
Chain Unveils Blockchain Platform Built By and for Financial Industry
Blockchain startup Chain is today releasing a new permissioned protocol built in collaboration with 10 financial and telecom firms.
Apr 11, 2016 at 22:31 | Stan Higgins
Blockchain startup Chain has inked a new deal with Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (MUFG).
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.