Gavin Andresen Now Regrets Role in Satoshi Nakamoto Saga - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Gavin Andresen Now Regrets Role in Satoshi Nakamoto Saga
Michael del Castillo (@DelRayMan) | Published on November 16, 2016 at 18:00 GMT
The last person known to communicate directly with bitcoin's pseudonymous creator says he now regrets getting involved in an effort early this year to reveal that person's identity.
In a blog post published today, the former lead maintainer of Bitcoin Core, bitcoin's dominant software project, Gavin Andresen wrote that regardless of the veracity of this person's claims he believes the public should "ignore him."
"I regret ever getting involved in the 'Who was Satoshi?' game, and am going to spend my time on more fun and productive pursuits."
The statements come months after Gizmodo and Wired published articles that identified Australian academic Craig Wright as Nakamoto in May, and statements made by Andresen supporting the finding (though soon after, the reveal was disputed).
The following month, it was revealed that Wright was pursing a series of blockchain patents, giving him a potential financial motive for the claim.
Andresen elaborated on the fall-out after those events in today's post:
"Either he was Satoshi, but really wants the world to think he isn't, so he created an impossible-to-untangle web of truths, half-truths and lies. And ruined his reputation in the process."
Andresen directly addresses his audience imploring them to ignore Wright, regardless of the veracity of his claims. Instead, he says to leave the potential fraudulent claim to the alleged victims and law enforcement.
As for those "more fun pursuits," we've reached out to Andresen for further comment, but at press time, have received no response.
ASX Exec Calls for Blockchain Use in Healthcare
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Jun 20, 2016 at 17:48 | Stan Higgins
The Man Who Claims to Be Bitcoin's Creator is Seeking Blockchain Patents
Alleged bitcoin creator Craig Wright is reportedly moving to secure patents focused on blockchain and digital currencies.
May 12, 2016 at 16:26 | Frank Schuil
In this opinion piece, one bitcoin CEO argues that Satoshi Nakamoto's identity does matter, despite claims otherwise from the community.
May 5, 2016 at 14:22 | Stan Higgins
Craig Wright Won't Provide More Proof He Created Bitcoin
In a stunning reversal, Craig Wright says he will not provide any more proof that he is the creator of bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto.
May 4, 2016 at 21:40 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Markets Hold Steady, But Brace for More Craig Wright Details
Bitcoin markets experienced little change on 2nd May in response to Craig Wright’s claim that he is the digital currency’s creator, Satoshi…
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.