Bitcoin Tops List of Paid Keywords Sought by Retail Brokers | Finance Magnates
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyEducation CenterBitcoin Tops List of Paid Keywords Sought by Retail Brokers
Bitcoin Tops List of Paid Keywords Sought by Retail Brokers
New index by FM Intelligence reveals the terms that online trading brokers are willing to pay the most for.
Avi Mizrahi | Education Center (CryptoCurrency) | Wednesday, 26/10/2016|15:08 GMT
Bitcoin is the most sought after paid keyword by online FX, binary options and CFD trading firms, as revealed today by Finance Magnates Intelligence Department, here to help brokers decide where to invest their precious marketing resources.
Join the industry leaders at the Finance Magnates London Summit, 14-15 November, 2016. Register here!
The top five paid keywords are ‘bitcoin’, ‘binary trading’, ‘stock market’, ‘CMC’ and ‘+500’. People interested in the stock market are obviously a demographic that will be a main target for CFD brokers and anyone searching for binary trading is primed for binary options companies. CMC and Plus500 are leading brokers in the UK and therefore competitors will try to reach their clientele and draw them to switch.
Bitcoin is therefore not just the only asset on the list, beating out gold and oil that are always very popular terms, but the only one not directly associated with traditional online trading. This shows that retail brokers understand that cryptocurrency traders are the new generation of traders and not a passing fad.
In comparison, the top five popular organic keywords that are also now revealed are just the same term in different European languages: ‘währungsrechner’, ‘currency converter’, ‘конвертер валют’,  ‘cambio valuta’, and ‘conversor de moeda’.
This is the latest publication from the FM Traffic Indices – a new cross-industry benchmark, created with a methodological formula that matriculates data from three main sources: brokers’ trading volumes, brokers’ traffic data and insider information.
In today’s business world, big-data analysis and access to objective information sources are crucial to success. Unfortunately, until now it has been very hard and costly, if possible at all, to find any reliable benchmarks for operations in social, FX and CFDs trading.
For this reason, the Finance Magnates Intelligence Department has launched a new project, creating a set of monthly indices encompassing various aspects of the online trading industry. These indices will provide you with unique data points gathered by our analysts that will serve as a valuable knowledge base for your decision making.
Want know more? Get the brand new FM Intelligence Report:
Tags: Advertising / Binary Options Trading / bitcoin
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 7 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 9 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 10 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 10 hours
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Swift is Not "a Legacy Incumbent that will be Doomed" by Blockchain
Blockchain May Solve Capital Markets’ Internal Reconciliation Problems
Anyone Can Now Start a Blockchain Thanks to Chain, Microsoft and IC3
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions