Business Wire reports that Samsung has announced a voluntary recall of specific top-load washers manufactured between March 2011 and current production.
Risks reportedly include the drums in the washers losing balance during the high-speed spin cycle. Excessive vibration as a result can cause the top to separate from the washer and presents a risk of injury to consumers.
Customers with a recalled washer can receive either free in-home repair to reinforce the washer’s top and a year-long extension of the manufacturer’s warranty regardless of age or a rebate toward a new Samsung washer (or other brands) along with free installation and removal of the old model.
Customers who choose to purchase a new Samsung model will receive an additional $150 loyalty incentive toward the purchase. Additionally, customers who purchased a recalled washer in the past 30 days are eligible for a full refund from the place of purchase.
Samsung advises owners to use the delicate and waterproof cycles when washing bedding, water-resistant or bulky items until the repair is complete or the washer exchanged.
Survey Says — Samsung Not Actually Hurt By Recall In U.S. Market
Get our hottest stories delivered to your inbox.
Signup for the PYMNTS.com Newsletter to get updates on top stories and viral hits.
Financial Regulators Race To Get Reforms On The Books Before Inauguration Day
Why Insider Threats Are Hurting North American Businesses
Amidst New Cash Rules, Uber Debuts Indian Wedding Service
Online Fraud Expected To Grow 43 Percent This Holiday Season In The US
CFPB Sues Company That Scammed Lead Paint Poisioning Victims
Prime Is The Ticket For Amazon: Prime Tickets On The Way
October Visa Data Shows Rise In EMV-Enabled Merchants
India’s Axis Bank Joins Earthport In X-Border Payments
Amazon’s Brand Central Aimed At Ridding Counterfeiters From Marketplace
Monday Is Black Friday For Shipments This Holiday Season
The Seven Deadly Data Sins Of The 2016 Presidential Election
The 2016 Presidential Election And Banks’ Next Four Scary Years
What the Uber Driver Revolt Means for Payments
© 2016 What’s Next Media and Data Analytics, LLC