Bitcoin Price Spike Toward $750 This Week as Yuan Falls
Bitcoin Price Spike Toward $750 This Week as Yuan Falls
Bitcoin prices flirted with $750 this week, as Chinese investors turned to cryptocurrency as a refuge from yuan-denominated assets.
The BTC/USD exchange rate ran into volatility in mid-week trading, spiking above $740 before retracing all the way back down to the $700 range. The BTC/USD traded at $703.30 Saturday at 2:02 pm ET, virtually unchanged from the previous close.
Bitcoin trading volumes reached 47 million last week, the highest on record. Most of that action has been taking place in China, where bitcoin exchanges have driven 98% of the digital currency’s transaction volume over the past month.
Bitcoin reached a four-month high of $742.66 on Wednesday, according to CoinDesk.
The US dollar plunged more than 1% this week, as demand for precious metals rose in the lead up to the presidential election. Bitcoin, which is often valued as a haven asset, could experience higher trading volumes in the lead up to the November 8 election. Analysts are forecasting heavy volatility this week should GOP candidate Donald Trump get nominated.
Gold prices also soared last week, reaching $1,300 a troy ounce for the first time in over a month. While digital currency and gold usually move independently of one another, their moves are more closely aligned during periods of  heavy volatility. Bitcoin moved in lockstep with the yellow metal this week as risk-off sentiment dominated the markets. The last time this happened was in the run up to the UK referendum on European Union membership June 23. The so-called Brexit triggered the biggest-ever selloff in global equities.
The CBOE VIX, a measure of US stock market volatility, spiked 40% this week, reaching its highest level since the Brexit aftermath. The so-called “fear index” is trading just above its historical average.
EconomicCalendar.com provides the latest economic news and financial events that move the market.
U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) Under Pressure in Today’s Trading
Sam Bourgi is a financial market analyst for economiccalendar.com. He has more than six years of progressive experience in economic and financial analysis, research consulting and sectoral analysis. As a published author in government, peer-reviewed, online and industry sources, he has developed a fundamental approach to the financial markets with a broad focus on stock indices, commodities and the technology sector. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Windsor and Master’s degree from McMaster University.
Light Sweet Crude Oil Futures,D 47.48 -0.01 -0.02%
Gold Prices End at More Than Nine-Month Lows
WTI Oil Prices Decline Sharply on OPEC Deal Uncertainty
DJIA Today: Dow Futures Record New Highs on Black Friday
Oil Futures Moves Sharply Lower Over OPEC Concerns
Thanksgiving Cheer Spreads to Wall Street as S&P 500 Futures Extend Record
Nasdaq Composite Index Forms Intra-Day & Closing Record High on Black Friday
Trading forex, equities, CFDs, or other assets carries financial risk. You may lose your initial deposit or more. The information on this website is provided for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as financial advice. Trading is risky. Always consult with an independent financial adviser to give you trading advice tailored to your individual circumstances. View the Full Disclaimer Here
EUR/USD Stays Above 1.1100, Employment Data Fails To Boost Dollar