Investorideas.com - Bitcoin and Blockchain Investing Conference - CoinAgenda 2016; Paul Puey, CEO Pitches Airbitz
Bitcoin and Blockchain Investing Conference - CoinAgenda 2016; Paul Puey, CEO Pitches Airbitz
Airbitz is the first ever US equity crowd funding campaign accepting bitcoin
  Point Roberts, WA and Delta, BC - November 7, 2016 (Investorideas.com newswire) Investorideas.com, a global news source and investor resource attends the recently held bitcoin and blockchain investing conference, CoinAgenda in Las Vegas
CoinAgenda is a conference for both mainstream investors new to bitcoin and blockchain investments, and experienced investors in both digital assets and blockchain companies.
Investorideas.com sits in on a track session to hear Paul Puey, CEO of Airbitz talk about his company. Airbitz is a single-signon security platform for blockchain apps His company ends up winning best ramp-up and best of show. He also tells listeners that they had just launched the first ever US equity crowd funding campaign accepting bitcoin on Wefunder.com.
Seventeen startup competitors delivered 20 minute presentations to industry leaders and investors, among them Clearstone Venture Partners and Intellisys Capital. Finalists received an honorary plaque, introductions for one-on-one meetings with venture investors who attended CoinAgenda, and the winning presentations will be shared within the bitcoin and blockchain angel investor group, BitAngels.
About Investorideas.com - News that Inspires Big Ideas
Sectors we cover in include mining, energy, renewable energy, water stocks, food and beverage (including organic and LOHAS, wine), defense and security, biotech, technology and mobile. We have also expanded our global coverage to include Latin American stocks, the Middle East, sports and entertainment.
Follow stocks in your favourite stock sector with Investor Ideas stock directories
Disclaimer/Disclosure: Investorideas.com is a digital publisher of third party sourced news, articles and equity research as well as creates original content, including video, interviews and articles. Original content created by investorideas is protected by copyright laws other than syndication rights. Our site does not make recommendations for purchases or sale of stocks, services or products. Nothing on our sites should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell products or securities. All investment involves risk and possible loss of investment. This site is currently compensated for news publication and distribution, social media and marketing, content creation and more. Contact each company directly regarding content and press release questions. Disclosure is posted for each compensated news release, content published /created if required but otherwise the news was not compensated for and was published for the sole interest of our readers and followers. More disclaimer info: http://www.investorideas.com/About/Disclaimer.asp.
Additional info regarding BC Residents and global Investors: Effective September 15 2008 - all BC investors should review all OTC and Pink sheet listed companies for adherence in new disclosure filings and filing appropriate documents with Sedar. Read for more info: http://www.bcsc.bc.ca/release.aspx?id=6894.  Global investors must adhere to regulations of each country.
login | logout | about us | services | contact | disclaimer / disclosure |
partners / links | funding | job search | privacy policy |