It is Now Much Easier to Order Bitcoin Cards on Unichange.me
It is Now Much Easier to Order Bitcoin Cards on Unichange.me
The peer-to-peer digital currency exchange platform Unichange.me has now made it much simpler to order Bitcoin cards from its platform.
BUCHAREST, Romania, Oct. 4, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Unichange.me, the peer-to-peer exchange platform has announced a new updated card ordering procedure, enabling its customers to order Bitcoin cards with just two clicks. The new process is a result of incessant hard work on Unichange.me technical team's part to improve customer experience on the platform.
To place an order for the Bitcoin card, Unichange.me customers have to go through the following steps;
Step 1: Choose the type of card, delivery type, and payment method.
Step 2: Check payment info and then click "Submit".
With this new card ordering procedure in place, the first Bitcoin card order requires no more than a cell phone confirmation.
As soon as the card is activated, users will be able to withdraw Bitcoin, Litecoin, BTC-e USD, Perfect Money USD/EUR, OkPay USD and FasaPay IDR/USD at the best fees.
In addition to physical Bitcoin cards, Unichange.me also offers virtual cards that can be ordered much faster, with just one click on the "Order Card Now" button. Upon completion of order, the virtual card will be delivered to the users' e-mail. The current on-going special promotion allows users to order a Unichange.me virtual digital currency card for free. The virtual cryptocurrency cards can be funded the same way as physical cards with a choice of electronic and cryptocurrencies.
The Unichange.me card is a perfect solution for traders and businesses dealing with digital currencies like Bitcoin, Litecoin, BTC-e USD Codes etc.
Save time with faster withdrawals – Withdrawals to Unichange.me debit and virtual cards can be completed in less than an hour, which otherwise may take anywhere between 1-6 days.
Cost saving – The cryptocurrency cards offered by Unichange.me are cheaper with minimal withdrawal fees. Detailed information about fees and limits are available here.
Customer convenience – In addition to faster withdrawals and cheaper fees, customer convenience also plays an important role in the company's decision to revamp the card ordering process. Those ordering physical Bitcoin cards from Unichange.me will also get a virtual card for free which can be used for online transactions until the former gets delivered. Once the physical card is received, the user can also transfer funds from the virtual card to the physical card.
Unichange.me Bitcoin card is available for everyone. Users can register on Unichange.me at this link, verify the cell phone and get a virtual card in less than 10 minutes, ready for extremely fast Bitcoin to card transfers.
Unichange.me is an innovative P2P exchange provider. The platform, dedicated to providing quality service is involved in developing a positive customer experience for the digital commerce ecosystem. The platform has a strong team with experienced players from the e-currency exchange market. Unichange.me supports multiple electronic currencies and offers a range of convenient withdrawal options to its customers.
Unichange.me is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only. The information does not constitute investment advice or an offer to invest.
This content was issued through the press release distribution service at Newswire.com. For more info visit: http://www.newswire.com
Unichange.me Shares Tips for Traders: How to Withdraw Bitcoin...
It is Now Much Easier to Order Bitcoin Cards on Unichange.me
Copyright © 2016 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Cision company.