Bank Trials Show India's Blockchain Interest on Rise - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bank Trials Show India's Blockchain Interest on Rise
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 17, 2016 at 19:54 GMT
Two banks in India have reportedly partnered on a series of blockchain trials aimed at testing the waters for potential new services.
Axis Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank are working on early concepts related to cross-border payments and transaction settlement, according to Indian news portal LiveMint.
The news closely follows that of ICICI, another Indian banking institution, is working with Dubai-based Emirates NBD on similar initiatives. Combined, the two partnerships signal strong interest among India’s banking sector in applications that focus on the movement and settlement of funds. Further, it’s the kind of experimentation that the Indian central bank has pushed for in recent months.
According to LiveMint, representatives from both Axis and Kotak Mahindra struck cautious yet optimistic tones in describing the trajectory of their trials.
Deepak Sharma, chief digital officer for Kotak Mahindra, was quoted as saying:
“We are theoretically convinced that blockchain is the way ahead. But we have to establish a practical use of the technology. As of now, the focus is on whether the technology is scalable in the near future.”
Though unnamed, the two banks are said to be working with internationally as well as a “technology provider”.
Amit Sethi, president and chief information officer for Axis, told the publication that he believed the bank’s retail and corporate business lines might see the first commercial-scale applications. Further, he indicated that the bank would look to begin offering related products to its clients, but demurred on when any rollouts might take place.
“We will come out with solutions for our customers soon, but we don’t want to commit to any time frame,” he said.
A representative for Axis was not immediately available for comment. Kotak Mahindra did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Bitcoin Scaling Solution SegWit Gets Possible Release Date
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 19, 2016 at 15:25 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Breaches $750 But Struggles to Set New 2016 High
Bitcoin prices repeatedly breached $750 during the week through 18th November as traders responded to macroeconomic uncertainty.
Nov 18, 2016 at 13:25 | Pete Rizzo
Bitcoin Price Passes $750 as it Nears Five-Month High
The price of bitcoin is now trading above $750, its highest total in nearly five months.
Oct 26, 2016 at 14:43 | Stan Higgins
Singapore Central Bank Inks Blockchain Deals With India, South Korea
It’s been a busy week on the blockchain front for Singapore’s central bank.
Oct 18, 2016 at 17:46 | Stan Higgins
More Than 100 Blockchain Pilots Underway at Tata IT Consultancy
The leader of one of India’s biggest IT services firms said that his company is pursuing a wide range of potential blockchain applications.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.