Bitcoin Price Strikes $750, Continues its Good Week - CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin Price Strikes $750, Continues its Good Week
hile it came close to the milestone yesterday, bitcoin price struck $750 in a continuing rally that has seen the cryptocurrency make increasing gains this week.
The figure is among the highs scaled by the cryptocurrency this year. Today’s trading peak of $750 on the Bitstamp Price Index (BPI) stuck at 9:55 AM, the first occasion since June 18, 2016, when bitcoin price struck a high of $754.83. Cryptocurrency enthusiasts and market participants will remember the month where bitcoin soared in value from $536.91 on June 1st to a high of $761.44 on June 19th in the lead-up to this year’s halving event. Altogether, today’s milestone represents a near five-month-high for bitcoin.
At the time of publishing, bitcoin was trading to the dollar at $748.2.
A number of factors, including the oft-culpable Chinese investor interest, could be attributed for the rise in value.
Interest in bitcoin has never been higher in India, a country that is home to the second largest population in the world and one of the world’s fastest growing economies. A comprehensive cash crunch induced by the government, unprecedented in its scale, saw nearly 90% of the country’s physical cash notes rendered obsolete overnight. Predictably, investors and everyday citizens looking for cash alternatives have boosted demand for bitcoin in the country, at a premium.
At the time of publishing, prominent Indian bitcoin exchange Unocoin is selling 1 BTC for ₹ 61715, approx. $906.
The devaluing yuan in China is also turning local investors to bitcoin, disillusioned by weak forecasts and capital controls.
For a live Bitcoin Price chart, click here.
For the most recent bitcoin price analysis piece from CCN analyst Jim Fredrickson, click here. Today’s analysis will be published soon.
All time references are in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
A Blockchain Remittance Pilot Proves Successful for 100 Migrant Workers in Thailand
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.