BitPay ramps up security of bitcoin wallet Copay with Intel hardware security integration - EconoTimes
FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
BTC/SGD faces strong support at 23.6% fibo, good to buy on dips
BTC/GBP takes support at 21-DMA, break below targets 550
FxWirePro: ETH/EUR faces strong support 8 level, good to sell on rallies
BitPay ramps up security of bitcoin wallet Copay with Intel hardware security integration
BitPay, a leading bitcoin payment processor company, has announced that it has integrated its bitcoin wallet Copay with the Intel Software Guard Extensions and Intel Identity Protection Technology (Intel IPT) with protected transaction display (PTD) security technologies.
With this, Copay has become the first bitcoin wallet with Intel hardware security integration. BitPay said that this new solution will allow Copay users to rest assured that their data is better protected even if their application code or associated computer is compromised.
“Providing user-friendly financial security is one of bitcoin's biggest opportunities, and Intel's silicon-based security helps us move bitcoin closer to the mainstream,” said Stephen Pair, CEO at BitPay. “We look forward to releasing this to Copay users in the coming months.”
The Intel Software Guard Extensions integration offers hardware-level protection for the bitcoin wallet’s private key generation, transaction signing and private keys themselves. It will make Copay an even safer true bitcoin wallet alternative to bitcoin account services, which are vulnerable to security breaches.
With this integration, users will be able to execute an application's most security-sensitive operations using the new 7th Generation Intel Core processors.
“The decentralized trust which blockchain technology enables has the potential to transform interactions over the Internet, starting with bitcoin. With blockchain technology and our security and computing assets, Intel hopes to bring decentralized trust to a wide array of asset exchanges over the Internet,” said Rick Echevarria, vice president of Software and Services Group, and General Manager of the Platforms Security Division at Intel.
BitPay expects to announce the general availability of the new integration soon. The firm believes that businesses that rely on Copay to receive and send high volumes of bitcoin payments will find this integration to be a welcome security tool.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
Vdice is neither provably fair or decentralised. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1646783.msg16762837#msg16762837
When Blockchain and Decentralization Disrupt Gambling - EconoTimes
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close below 14.01 targets 14.70 - EconoTimes
New Finger Camera Tech Helps Blind People Read Printed Words
Princess Leia Memory Wave Helps The Brain Better Store Memory
Terrorism And AI Mix Seems Inevitable, Spells Disaster
Biological vs chronological age: how old are you really?
Watch: Virtual Reality Training For Police To Help Reduce Shootings
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
Why batteries have started catching fire so often
AI Should Get Credit For Its Inventions Law Expert Says
Elon Musk: Advanced Artificial Intelligence Could Destroy The Internet
DIY networking: the path to a more democratic internet
Samsung Banking On Foldable Phone Revolution, Patent Published
Market-moving news and views, 24 hours a day >
305m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
306m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
306m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
306m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
306m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Tech City UK to deliver HM Treasury's fintech measures
FxWirePro: AUD/NZD bulls in intermediated trend rebuild positive momentum, major trend drives in non-directional, upswings implied by interest rate
UK Q3 GDP shows high resilience post-Brexit, Q4 could see positive surprise
What can obesity control learn from tobacco control's success?
US Election Series: Jill Stein raises $4.5 million to challenge election outcome
Study Says Practice Tests Help Maintain Memory Condition During Exams
National Bank of Malawi chooses fintech firm NetGuardians for fraud prevention
FxWirePro: GBP/USD faces strong resistance at 1.2530, good to sell on rallies
FxWirePro:USD/CHF forms Bearish Bat pattern, good to sell on rallies
Indian economy to expand below 7 pct this year, further upside in USD/INR likely
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
Vdice is neither provably fair or decentralised.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1646783.ms...more
When Blockchain and Decentralization Disrupt Gambling - EconoTimes
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close...
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says...
Bitfinex spokesman resigns due to ‘insane conspiracy theories’ - Econo...
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
BTC/EUR faces strong resistance around 715, break above targets 740 - ...
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
India likely to witness a weak Q4 on adverse demonetization effects, says...
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
December US Fed Interest Rate Hike – First of Many? - EconoTimes
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
MAS and R3 partner to carry out blockchain-based inter-bank payments -...
Thank you very much for these daily articles on the USD/ZAR pair!
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR remains well supported below 14.50 mark, sustained close...
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
How can we prevent type 2 diabetes in children? - EconoTimes
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
Deutsche Bank turmoil shows risks of weakening bank capital standards -...
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
MHI/YouGov Survey Finds Americans’ Joys, Anxieties About Thanksgiving Are...
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR hits fresh 2-month high at 14.56, faces strong resistance...
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
The huge political cost of Blair's decision to allow Eastern European migrants...
You do know his character's name is Steve, don't you? ;)
‘Hawaii Five-O’ Season 7, Episode 9 Spoilers: "Two Days in November" –...
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
Bitcoin and blockchain investment activity drops in Q3 2016 - EconoTim...