Winklevoss twins tap State Street for bitcoin fund - Boston Business Journal
Meet the 2017 BBJ Innovation All-Stars (BBJ photo gallery)
Trump win won't change LPL's pay overhaul, CEO says
Winklevoss twins tap State Street for bitcoin fund
Morning Edition >> Afternoon Edition >> Breaking News
State Street hires CFO away from another local finance giant
State Street's newest product scours news sites for investment tips
State Street adds four local life science firms to women-focused index
Property Spotlight: Scenic and Accessible Granite Avenue Office Space Sublease
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss are teaming up with State Street.
State Street will serve as the administrator and transfer agent for a long-gestating bitcoin fund created by the Winklevoss twins, the brothers who famously fought Mark Zuckerberg over ownership of Facebook.
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, both Harvard graduates, have been developing a first-of-its-kind exchange-traded fund tied to the virtual currency bitcoin since 2013. The product has yet to receive approval from federal regulators. Other firms are racing to put a bitcoin ETF on the market as well.
The fund may receive a boost from the enlistment of State Street (NYSE: STT). As administrator, the Boston financial giant would be responsible for maintaining the trust’s books and calculating its net asset value, according to a securities filing this week.
The product has another Boston connection: Law firm Ropes & Gray has been hired to counsel the brothers regarding the fund.
The shares will trade on the BATS exchange under the symbol COIN, if they are approved by regulators.
The Winklevoss twins sued Zuckerberg claiming that he stole their idea for Facebook while the three of them were Harvard students, a legal fight dramatized in the film "The Social Network." They ended up settling with the social-media giant.
Greg Ryan covers the financial services industry and law firms.
Boston billionaire falls off Forbes list of wealthiest Americans
Nordstrom responds to customers calling on it to drop Ivanka Trump fashion line - The Business Journals
This game will keep you up all night!
The 15 Most Expensive Homes In The World
6 Criteria That Lower Your Car Insurance Rate
NECN poaches two Boston reporters from rival stations
Big Pharma, Big Biotech: Inside Shire's ferocious recent growth in Lexington, Massachusetts
These are the wealthiest health care executives in Massachusetts
Massachusetts hospital executives supporting one presidential candidate this election
15 Luxurious Homes That Were Built Only For The Ultra Rich
Why more women in tech will help business - Capgemini - Financial Times
The online strategy game that people are afraid to play
Vertex Pharmaceuticals confirms fears that latest drug launch of Orkambi is slower than hoped
© 2016 American City Business Journals. All rights reserved. Use of this Site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 12/23/13) and Privacy Policy (updated 12/23/13). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of American City Business Journals.
To continue   Create a FREE account  or Sign in