Bitcoin Regulations, Not a Hard Nut to Crack - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Regulations, Not a Hard Nut to Crack
Existing legal frameworks can be applied for Bitcoin and blockchain technology applications. Regulations will shape up as we go, just like it happened with the internet. Read more...
The increasing usage of Bitcoin and blockchain technology in today’s economy is posing a challenge to the governments. With the current legal and regulatory environment set to address the issues related to conventional economic systems, governments are still stuck at finding ways to include digital currencies and distributed ledger systems into it.
According to George Takach, a senior partner at McCarthy Tetrault LLP, it is just a matter of time for the law to catch up with technological innovation. In an article on one of the online law magazines, he compares Bitcoin and blockchain technology to the internet a few decades ago. He compares the regulatory scenario in Canada with that of few states in the United States. While the State of New York rushed with a half-baked BitLicense, the Canadian government has opted for a wait and watch approach. So far, the Canadian regulatory bodies have only issued directives for countering money laundering using digital currencies.
Each state and country react differently to new technologies, especially the disruptive ones. Takach gives the State of Utah’s reaction to the introduction of Public Key Encryption in the 1990s. The regulations introduced by the state in the early days of its adoption didn’t come of any use as the industry developed in an entirely different direction. Similarly, any actions on the part of governments and regulatory bodies, concerning digital currencies at the moment may or may not be fruitful.
The cryptocurrency industry is still in its nascent stages. There is still room for adoption and innovation. As the technology develops, the use case for Bitcoin or blockchain technology may be completely different from what it is now. The increasing use of blockchain technology can be taken as an example. The distributed ledger was initially meant for keeping a record of all the transactions happening over the Bitcoin network. but now, the distributed ledger by itself is being used for a variety of applications.
George Takach doesn’t believe that there is a regulatory vacuum concerning cryptocurrencies. Like in the early days of internet-based business models, the general legal rules of libel, taxation, securities regulations etc. applied to them then, and the same applies to cryptocurrencies now.
Even though the general laws cover some aspects of digital currencies, there is still few regulatory challenges when it comes to countering terrorist financing, privacy rules, and consumer protection. These challenges can be eventually solved, using internet related precedents.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.