Bitcoin Can Buy You a Biometric Data Skimmer on the Darknet - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Can Buy You a Biometric Data Skimmer on the Darknet
It is now easy to buy biometric data skimmers from the darknet marketplaces with Bitcoin. Read more...
Passwords are old school. Biometrics is the new-age security solution that is being implemented rapidly across organizations and devices. Almost all the latest smartphone models come with a built-in fingerprint sensor these days. Biometric data is considered to be the most secure form of authentication as it belongs to an individual and can’t be changed. The very advantage of biometrics can soon turn into a security nightmare.
An investigation conducted by Kaspersky Labs has unearthed increasing availability of biometrics skimming devices on the darknet. These devices, capable of skimming victim’s fingerprints can be easily bought from at least twelve sellers against Bitcoin payments.  In a statement, a security expert from Kaspersky Labs Olga Kochetova says,
“The problem with biometrics is that, unlike passwords or PIN codes which can be easily modified in the event of compromise, it is impossible to change your fingerprint or iris image. Thus if your data is compromised once, it won’t be safe to use that authentication method again.”
According to Olga, the easiest way for someone to gain access to biometric data is by accessing modern passports and visas. These documents have biometric data of the holder embedded in them and anyone with access to these documents can easily steal the information.  While most of the biometric data skimming devices available on the darknet are for stealing fingerprints, especially from ATMs, there are few who are allegedly working on devices that can illegally capture data associated with palm vein and iris as well.
Another recent survey conducted by Deloitte shows that over 20% of smartphone users in the United Kingdom have switched to fingerprint authentication on their phones. The shift is said to be driven by privacy concerns as some believe that passwords and PINs can be compromised easily. But the latest trend on the darknet may soon end up neutralizing the advantage of fingerprint authentication over passwords and PINs.
The only way to safeguard one’s biometric data is to check for skimmers at ATMs and other public places that require biometric authentication before using them. Also, by keeping the passports and visas safe.
Ref: FSTech |Info-Security Magazine | Deloitte |Image: Myce
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.