The 'ARK TEC' ICO Offers an Opportunity to Be Part of the next Generation Blockchain Ecosystem - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
The ‘ARK TEC’ ICO Offers an Opportunity to Be Part of the next Generation Blockchain Ecosystem
The ARK TEC ICO allows investors and cryptocurrency enthusiasts to be part of the ARK Ecosystem for next generation blockchain solutions. Read more...
ARK, the development team behind new age blockchain products and services has announced the launch of their upcoming ICO. The initial coin offering, better known in ARK’s terms as Token Exchange Campaign or ARK TEC is slated to go live on November 7, 2016. During the 34-day long ICO period, investors can take part in the distribution of the ARK tokens while leveraging upon the bonus offers.
ARK is known to create innovative blockchain based solutions by development and integration of multiple technologies. The platform intends to make the use of blockchain technology more prevalent in existing industry settings. ARK Crew, the development team behind ARK platform also offer various blockchain services to their customers. The current ICO, ARK TEC is the platform’s initiative to raise funds for the development of complete ARK Ecosystem.
ARK has announced the creation of a maximum of 125 million crypto tokens, out of which 75% will be made available for the community during the crowd sale. Investors can buy 93,750,000 ARK tokens with Bitcoin, Lisk and other Altcoins supported by Shapeshift crypto-crypto exchange. The remaining 25% of the tokens will be distributed between ARK Team (15%), ARK Shield (7%), bounty programs (2%) and escrow service (1%).
With over 30 individuals with different educational and professional backgrounds from 15 different countries, ARK is a truly global blockchain platform. The expertise of ARK Crew includes engineering, medicine, education, front-end and back-end development and more.
The ARK TEC campaign also makes allowances for a much broader community participation. The attractive bonus and bounty programs encourage more people to actively participate in the ICO and promotions. Lisk users stand to get a 120% bonus during the first 24 hours of ARK TEC campaign. Similarly, sending out tweets, visiting and interacting with ARK on Bitcointalk and even interactions of on ARK’s Facebook page carries rewards as part of the ARK Bounty program.
ARK is offering an ideal opportunity to investors and cryptocurrency enthusiasts to become part of a movement. Those interested in seeing and being part of the future of blockchain technology can do so by participating in ARK TEC.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.