Japan to Drop 8% Bitcoin Sales Tax - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 12, 2016 at 19:33 GMT
Japan is reportedly planning to exempt bitcoin and other virtual currencies from a national sales tax.
The country's Financial Services Agency – its top finance regulator – along with the Ministry of Finance are deliberating on a possible exemption, according to regional news service Nikkei. Bitcoin purchases in Japan are currently subject to an 8% sales tax.
"Discussions between the Finance Ministry and Financial Services Agency are expected to lead to a formal decision after talks by a ruling-coalition tax panel at the end of the year," the agency reported.
According to the report, the government is planning to use legislation passed in May that classified bitcoin as a kind of prepaid payment instrument.
The service further quoted an unnamed representative from a Japanese bitcoin exchange, who indicated that the move would significantly cut administrative costs.
News that the government might be pulling back the sales tax comes months after a lawmaker from Japan's ruling political party, the Liberal Democratic Party, pushed for such an exemption. In March, Diet member Tsukasa Akimoto pushed Finance Minister Tarō Asō to rescind the tax – a call that Asō reportedly pushed back on at the time.
The FSA and the Japanese Finance Ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
So, It Looks Like Ethereum is Going to Have to Fork Again...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 21, 2016 at 13:00 | Stan Higgins
UBS plans to invest in blockchain as part of an expansion plan in China.
Nov 18, 2016 at 15:59 | Stan Higgins
Japan's Central Bank Believes Blockchain Could Create Tax Issues
A senior official for Japan's central bank had words of caution for distributed ledgers.
Nov 16, 2016 at 17:00 | Corin Faife
The Korea Exchange, South Korea’s sole securities exchange operator, has launched a new service that utilizes blockchain technology.
Nov 16, 2016 at 12:30 | Pete Rizzo
Singapore's Central Bank to Test Blockchain-Backed Digital Currency
Blockchain consortium startup R3CEV and eight major banks are said to be participating in the forthcoming trial.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.