Blockchain and Bitcoin Russia Returning to Show It’s Many Sides in November | Online Casino Reports
Blockchain and Bitcoin Russia Returning to Show It’s Many Sides in November
The world is ready for blockchain, and Russia is ready to get ahead of the game.
On November 10th in Moscow, the world will get the latest look at the status of Blockchain and its importance to iGaming. 
The Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference Russia is conference dedicated to cryptocurrencies and blockchain-based services. As blockchain technology spreads to the mainstream, Blockchain and BitCoin Russia will take a look at implementation of blockchain in the banking sector, management and related areas.
Leading cryptocurrency Bitcoin, leading blockchain technology Ethereum, and individual adapted blockchain implementations at this point are relevant not only to large and major banks, but to medium enterprises as well. Moving forward, Blockchain and Bitcoin Russia will discuss implementation of blockchain products offer for reducing operational expenses and diversifying business processes.
Organizer Smile-Expo Company has divided the conference into two sections, dedicated respectively to financial experts and entrepreneurs.
The financier section themes include implementation of blockchain in banking, preparation of the bill on cryptocurrency regulation, and creation of the Russian blockchain consortium. The entrepreneurs themes will consider blockchain in telecommunications, insurance, notary, the Internet of things and asset management.
Business areas being streamlined by blockchain will be described in full, including crypto- and blockchain projects most attractive for investment; the best places to find developers; the way that authorities view blockchain technologies and cryptocurrencies, as revealed in the bill to be presented from the Ministry of Finance and creation of national blockchain consortium; and development of blockchain technology in other countries.
At last April’s conference on blockchain, also in Moscow, event coordinator Pavel Likhomanov revealed that discussions on themes such as Blockchain financial instruments, the creation experience of the first decentralized autonomous organizations and rates of digital currencies stoked local entrepreneur demand for blockchain technology and expertise in this region of Russia.
Likhmanov further disclosed that representatives of major payment systems and companies outside the territory of the RF have confirmed their participation in the November event.
With speakers ranging from developers of financial and technical services to financiers to entrepreneurs to lawyers to investors to other experts with something to say about blockchain development, the blockchain conference has something for IT pros, businesspersons and end users alike, and should not be missed by anyone looking to get a leg up in iGaming or e-commerce in general.
Bitcoin & Blockchain Developers Set for Prague Conference
Prague to Host the Bitcoin & Blockchain Conference Next Month
Smile: Blockchain and Bitcoin Conference Prague is Coming
A Look Into The Prague 2016 Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference
Blockchain and Bitcoin Conference Ushers in New Era of Cryptocurrency
YES! I WANT TO KNOW ABOUT EXCLUSIVE BONUSES, PROMOTIONS, AND NEWS.