Bitaccess Extends Instant Bitcoin Purchases to 1,000 New Locations - Press Release
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitaccess Extends Instant Bitcoin Purchases to 1,000 New Locations
San Francisco, California (October 4, 2016) – Bitaccess is excited to announce the expansion of bitcoin sales to hundred of storefronts in select states across the US.
Bitaccess customers can now buy bitcoin with cash by sending a bill payment directly to Bitaccess. This is now available at nearly 1,000 retail locations in California, Texas, Florida, New Jersey, and Georgia.
Buying bitcoin instantly with the Bitaccess bill payment option is like paying any other bill. After creating an order online directly at the Bitaccess.co website, users are provided an invoice ID to present at the nearest bill pay location. Once payment is made, bitcoin will be sent directly to your personal wallet within 60 seconds.
In just 3 steps, anyone can buy bitcoin instantly:
1. Create an order online to buy bitcoin at https://bitaccess.co/
2. Choose a BTM, bill pay, or voucher location to make payment.
3. Ask the merchant to make a cash bill payment directly to Bitaccess. Bitcoin is deposited in seconds.
This service allows users to buy up to $2,000 worth of bitcoin in a single day. This makes Bitaccess one of the most accessible bitcoin sellers in the world, opening up cash payments through its trademark BTM, top up vouchers, and bill payments to over 100 million people worldwide.
Bitaccess's mission is to provide people and businesses around the world with access to the future digital money technology. The company has installed Bitcoin ATMs (BTMs) in half a dozen countries. Bitaccess is developing digital currency technologies that are secure, accessible and easy-to-use.
The publication of a press release on this page should not be viewed as an endorsement by CoinDesk. Customers should do their own research before investing funds in any company.
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact