Bitcoin Price Watch; Decline, Reversal On The Cards? - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Price Watch; Decline, Reversal On The Cards?
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
We’re big advocates of bitcoin (I guess that goes without saying) and so when price moves as part of a steep decline, it hurts a little. We’ve all got holdings, and these holdings take a hit when the bitcoin price dips.
That said, when you trade intraday as we do, a decline is neither positive nor negative, it’s just volatility. We like volatility, and we can take advantage of it if we set up right. In this instance, we set up right, and despite price collapsing from the high 700s to where it currently sits (somewhere in the region of $715) we’ve managed to come out of the day with a net profit.
We’ve had a great few days’ trading, and we’re looking for this to continue as we head into the final throes of the week. If this is to happen, we are concurrently looking for some volatility that we can take advantage of.
For what it’s worth, we think longer term support at 700 flat should hold firm on the wider timeframe charts. That said, we’re here to focus on the intraday, so let’s get to it.
Take a look at the chart below to get an idea of what’s on this evening. It’s a five-minute candlestick chart showing today’s action, with our fresh range overlaid.
Here’s a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening.
As the chart shows, the range in focus for this evening’s session is defined by in term support to the downside at 708, and in term resistance to the upside at 723. Plenty of room for intrarange here, so get stuck in towards the opposite levels on a bounce from our key targets.
From a breakout perspective, a close above resistance will put us long towards an upside target of 730 flat. Conversely, a close below support will signal short towards 700 support.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.