Bitcoin goes on sale across Switzerland via railway ticket machines
Bitcoin goes on sale across Switzerland via railway ticket machines
Bitcoin will be on sale at all Swiss Federal Railway ticket machines
If you don't have access to a Swiss bank account, you will soon be able to keep your currency secure by instead buying some Bitcoin at any Swiss railway station. The cryptocurrency will be available for purchase at all Swiss Federal Railways (SBB) ticket machines in November.
Bitcoin hype has died down over the past two years in North America and other parts of the world, but during that time SBB determined that there did appear to be a market for selling the digital currency in Switzerland.
SBB has over 1,000 ticket machines, most of them available around the clock, which means that a ubiquitous network for obtaining Bitcoin in Switzerland will literally go online overnight. Swiss Railways has partnered with Swiss payments company SweePay, which will act as the intermediary for Bitcoin purchases on SBB ticket machines.
To buy Bitcoin at one of the machines, customers use their mobile phone number as a means of identification. Transactions are initiated by scanning a QR code on the buyer's Bitcoin wallet and confirmed via a security code sent to the mobile phone.
The maximum amount of Bitcoin that can be bought in a transaction is 500 Swiss Francs (US$506, €461). While Bitcoin can be purchased at any ticket machine, the currency can not be used to actually pay for railway tickets at any of the machines.
Bitcoin will be available for purchase on the machines starting November 11.
Jetmen join French Air Force aerobatic team for insane formation flight
Review: 2016 Chevrolet Camaro SS packs plenty of muscle
The 5 best tablets for kids in 2016
DIY "junkyard battery" inspired by ancient blueprint stores energy cheaply
5 viruses, 1 metal and 1 solvent tagged as new cancer causers in US agency report
Cold war redux? Russia unveils massive Satan 2 ICBM capable of destroying France or Texas in a single hit
Inside Reclusive Playboy Boss Hugh Hefner’s Sad Final Days
Finally You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone!
How slippy are thy boots? The MAA will tell you
Container farms add local flavor to fresh fruit production
Mutant grasses can clean up the mess left over from bombs
Ostrich Pillow Go provides soft and shapely snoozing support
One Big Question: Is Donald Trump America's first "viral president?"
Young Aussie inventor builds a better Band-Aid dispenser
LED wearable makes concert-goers part of an interactive light show
Adidas brings its ocean plastic footwear to the masses
Born to Fly Baby bundles stroller and carry-on into one
Daydream View review: Google’s Gear VR rival is capable, but lacks content
The world's most expensive car: 3 Ferrari 250 GTOs for sale at more than $55 million each
JB-10 Jetpacks now on sale to "well qualified buyers" – but there's also a chance for the rest of us
Mobile VR is growing up: The best new Gear VR games
National Geographic looks at life on Mars with London model home
Hollywood and Hacking: Into the 21st Century - Real life hackers, computer punks and Hugh Jackman dancing
The five best electric skateboards to give your holiday season some spark
The most valuable scientific documents of all-time: top 10
Reactor that produces liquid fuel from CO2 in the air to be tested in portable pilot plant
See the stories that matter in your inbox every morning