Most Popular Editor`s Picks Market Overview Forex Stock Markets Commodities Bonds Comics Webinars
By John van der MunnikMarket OverviewNov 14, 2016 06:32AM ET
I was going over my usual charts last weekend when I noticed that I had never ever traded Bitcoin before in my life. Once I clicked on the infamous digital currency in my trading station I immediately got a warning from my broker: 'Warning, Bitcoin value is extremely volatile!' etc. I remember seeing this a few years back as well, likely one of the reasons why I never traded Bitcoin. But it's also why it's fascinating to me, especially now that it looks like this extremely volatile trading instrument is on the rise. It has managed to keep it's value over the past few months, and in some places now paying with Bitcoin is more widely accepted. Time to take a closer look.
Bitcoin, at this time of writing trading around 700. What caught my interest yesterday is the slow increase in value over the last few months, toward the end of spring this year it got a huge boost, and it never really lost a significant amount of value ever since. Let's take a look at the chart below;
I know the time frame is pretty short in a general sense, but this is why it makes it so attractive as being a 'sound' investment. Before the beginning of summer it hovered around 440 - 480 levels, then it was lift off to where were are now: 700. I'm seriously considering entering a buy, with a stop loss around 685 - too tight? Maybe, but I'm still cautious. I do think we are seeing an uptrend since the beginning of October. Bitcoin is certainly in the news a lot lately and perhaps is seriously now on it's way to become a world currency. More interest usually means more demand, and 700 may sound overpriced or expensive right now, but the way the trend is heading we might see Bitcoin trading over 1,000 next year. A perfect time to step in a buy this digital currency. It had enough time to show us it can maintain its value for a whole season, but still not to a point that is too late to make a good profit.
Disclaimer: Fusion Media would like to remind you that the data contained in this website is not necessarily real-time nor accurate. All CFDs (stocks, indexes, futures) and Forex prices are not provided by exchanges but rather by market makers, and so prices may not be accurate and may differ from the actual market price, meaning prices are indicative and not appropriate for trading purposes. Therefore Fusion Media doesn`t bear any responsibility for any trading losses you might incur as a result of using this data.
Fusion Media or anyone involved with Fusion Media will not accept any liability for loss or damage as a result of reliance on the information including data, quotes, charts and buy/sell signals contained within this website. Please be fully informed regarding the risks and costs associated with trading the financial markets, it is one of the riskiest investment forms possible.
By Kathy Lien - Nov 25, 2016 13
Gold Breaks Below $1200, Downside Risk Continues; Trump, Fed Eyed
By Matthew Ashley - Nov 24, 2016 2
Further Weakness To Come For The World Market Index
By Lance Roberts - Nov 22, 2016 4
© 2007-2016 Fusion Media Limited. All Rights Reserved
Risk Disclosure: Fusion Media will not accept any liability for loss or damage as a result of reliance on the information contained within this website including data, quotes, charts and buy/sell signals. Please be fully informed regarding the risks and costs associated with trading the financial markets, it is one of the riskiest investment forms possible. Currency trading on margin involves high risk, and is not suitable for all investors. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange or any other financial instrument you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite.
Fusion Media would like to remind you that the data contained in this website is not necessarily real-time nor accurate. All CFDs (stocks, indexes, futures) and Forex prices are not provided by exchanges but rather by market makers, and so prices may not be accurate and may differ from the actual market price, meaning prices are indicative and not appropriate for trading purposes. Therefore Fusion Media doesn’t bear any responsibility for any trading losses you might incur as a result of using this data.