Unocoin Announces New Bitcoin APIs to Accommodate Businesses
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Unocoin Announces New Bitcoin APIs to Accommodate Businesses
Unocoin, the Indian Bitcoin exchange platform has announced the launch of its APIs for international customers. Read more...
The Indian Bitcoin sector has come of age. Unocoin, one of the country’s “Big Four” Bitcoin exchanges has today announced the launch of a robust API for businesses. According to the company’s latest press release, the new Application Programming Interface (API) will allow companies across the world to gain access to the Indian Bitcoin market.
The Bitcoin sector in India has so far been a closed market, with most services confined to the domestic population. By using the Unocoin API, developers can now create products that allow individuals and businesses from anywhere in the world to generate Bitcoin wallets, execute transactions and also trade the digital currency in the Indian market. In addition, the Unocoin API also offers access to real-time and historical price information. The existing merchant features on Unocoin has received a significant boost from the recent development as the API also allows businesses to accept and request Bitcoin payments as well.
The launch of Unocoin’s API comes after a period of sustained testing and implementation within the company’s applications, including the iOS application and upcoming Android mobile applications. Unocoin has also reported that its API is already being used by Paycase, a Canadian remittance company offering fast and affordable cross-border money transfer solutions.
Unocoin co-founder and CEO, Sathvik Vishwanath was quoted in the press statement, saying:
“We’ve been excited to develop a robust API for use by companies around the world. Our API is best described as an on-ramp for firms looking for a simple way to gain entry into one of the world’s fastest growing and largest potential markets. Our team has been working non-stop prior to and during our Pre-Series A round to provide the most reliable, full-featured API, but one that, most importantly, is incredibly easy to adopt.”
Unocoin has been working with Blockstream on the Liquid network — Bitcoin’s first production side chain which is being used by Paycase as well. Unocoin has recently raised over $1.5 million in funding from some of the leading investors in the sector including Barry Silbert’s Digital Currency Group, Boost VC, Bank to the Future, Bitcoin Capital, FundersClub, Mumbai Angels and ah! Ventures. The company was also part of the Boost VC accelerator program.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.