Bitcoin Saves Colorado Hemp Farmers Tons Of Financial Trouble
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Saves Colorado Hemp Farmers Tons Of Financial Trouble
Despite this positive note, there is still a huge lack of understanding where Bitcoin is concerned.
The correlation between Bitcoin and the hemp industry has been mentioned a fair few times in the past. But things are evolving in a very different direction compared to what people assumed at first. Various hemp farmers located in Colorado are suffering from issues with their banking partners. Bitcoin is offering them a way to continue their operations at a fraction of the costs.
Growing and selling hemp is not illegal in Colorado. This creates new and exciting business opportunities for those who want to venture into this niche industry, Unfortunately, running such a business is not without its problems, particularly when it comes to banking. Very few financial institutions keep an open mind toward help farming.
To be more precise, it would not be the first time a hemp farmer is arrested for conducting a legitimate business deal. There is a big difference between marijuana and hemp, although law enforcement officials do not always see it that way. The Colorado government is not strictly regulating hemp by any means. However, the local banks are not too happy with customers dealing in this non-THC form of cannabis.
Even though this is a legal form of cannabis, there is a stigma surrounding hemp farmers. Financial institutions prefer not to deal with these types of clients. That leaves the farmers with very few options, and it forces them to think outside of the box. Luckily, there are alternative financial solutions available, including popular cryptocurrency Bitcoin.
Unlike companies such as PayPal or the average bank, Bitcoin will not tell people what to do. Nor will it tell hemp farmers how to run their business. This ecosystem is open to everyone around the world, and they can control their funds as they see fit. Fast forward to today and Bitcoin payments are slowly becoming the new norm in the Colorado hemp business.
What is rather intriguing is how cryptocurrency payments are frequently used for both online and offline transactions. It is rather easy to integrate a wallet solution into existing websites. Additionally, the easy-to-use interface makes it easy to explain the concept to other members of the supply chain. Despite this positive note, there is still a huge lack of understanding where Bitcoin is concerned.
Thanks to projects such as 1620 Solutions, that situation is coming to change. Educational efforts regarding cryptocurrency are direly needed if the ecosystem is to grow. For hemp farmers in Colorado, Bitcoin may be the answer to all financial concerns they may have. Interest in this concept seems to be genuine, which is a positive sign for the future of Bitcoin.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.