Wefunder Now Accepts Bitcoin, Says Deal Pipeline is Very Strong - Crowdfund Insider
Wefunder Now Accepts Bitcoin, Says Deal Pipeline is Very Strong
October 28, 2016 @ 9:33 am By JD Alois
Wefunder, the Reg CF platform that has now crowdfunded over $8.4 million since May of this year dominating the sector, has now added a new feature.  Wefunder now accepts Bitcoin transactions making it even easier to invest in early stage companies. Bitcoin is generally thought of as a highly secure and efficient method of transferring value. In many ways it is better than using a credit card.
Wefunder CEO and co-founder Nick Tommarello told Crowdfund Insider;
“We worked pretty hard to figure out how to offer Bitcoin as a way to purchase securities in a Regulation Crowdfunding legally.  It’s a popular request among some of our more tech-savvy early adopter investors, especially as no bank is (yet) willing to enable credit cards for Reg CF.”
Out of the 46 successful Reg CF offerings across the industry, Wefunder has funded 33 of them as of this week. More than 7500 investors have participated in a Reg CF offer on Wefunder with the vast majority of investments being less than $500.  Wefunder reports a 56% success rate for issuers raising capital on their platform.
“We’re seeing the Reg CF industry start to grow faster. With each success story we’ve funded, more companies have come to Wefunder asking for our help, and our pipeline of upcoming offerings has increased. Our team worked pretty hard to launch 10 companies last week, and we’ll be rolling out another 5 in a few days.”
Wefunder recently revealed it will be moving into the Reg A+ side of the crowdfunding business.  While Reg CF is capped at raises of $1 million, issuers may raise up to $50 million under Reg A+.
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
This Strategy Game Will Keep You Up All Night!
The Only 2 Sites You Need to Know About When Building a Website
10 Easy Skin Secrets Dermatologists Don’t Want You to Know
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple Solution
WeFunder: “People are Going to Be Surprised by the Quality of Companies that Decide to use Reg CF”
First to One Million: BetaBionics Reg CF Offer Closes on Wefunder
WeFunder will Pay Bounty to “Scouts” that Source Deals for Crowdfunding
Wefunder Enables Giving the Gift of Early Stage Investing with Holiday Gift Cards
WeFunder in a Box: Investment Crowdfunding Platform Gives Everything Away for Free
Saving the American Dream: Wefunder Becomes a Public Benefit Corporation
WeFunder: “We are Excited for the Next 6 Months of Regulation Crowdfunding”
Funding Train: Wefunder Travels Across America to Fund Small Business
Congress Must Fix Title III Investment Crowdfunding, No Startup Will Touch it Unless Congress Acts
Reg CF 3 Month Report: Wefunder Dominates Retail Crowdfunding
TAXA Biotechnologies Set to Finish WeFunder Round With Over $250,000
Is the SAFE Not So Safe for Investment Crowdfunding?
There are Now 21 FINRA Approved Reg CF Crowdfunding Portals
Daplie Does Side-by-Side Indiegogo / Wefunder Reg CF Crowdfunding Offer
SeedInvest Update: Interest is Growing in Crowdfunding but Improvements Will Help
This entry was posted in Crowdfunding Portals and tagged bitcoin, nick tommarello, regulation a, regulation cf, wefunder. Bookmark the permalink.
Canadian Marketplace Lender Vault Circle Receives New License
Complying with AML Laws: Challenges for the Fintech Industry
Ron Suber on Marketplace Lending: Keep Calm & Lend On (Deck)
SoFi COO Joanne Bradford: In 5 Years We Are Going to Look Very Different Than Today
Millionaires Prefer To Keep This Video A Secret
"Erases Wrinkles Too Fast?" New Anti-Wrinkle Method Unveiled
What Lies Have Been Written About You Online?
Research: European Alternative Finance Jumps to €5.4 billion in 2015
PatentAngels Wants to Crowdfund Companies with Patent Rights
Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond's Autumn Statement: Further Support for Business Including Fintech
Mark Elenowitz of TriPoint Global: Reg A+ is the Future of IPOs
German Finance Ministry Publishes Report on Fintech: Very High Growth in Recent Years
Neuroprofiler: Risk Profiling & Suitability Testing Based on Behavioral Finance
Go F**tech Yourself — An Official Slush Pre-Event – Helsinki
November 29 @ 4:00 am - 10:00 pm
Startup Canada Grand Finale Awards 2016 – Toronto
November 29 @ 5:30 pm - 9:00 pm
November 30 @ 2:30 pm - 5:00 pm
Investor’s Conference on Marketplace Lending – New York City
asia australia california canada charity china crowdcube equity europe event fca film fintech france games gaming germany gofundme hardware health indiegogo jobs act kickstarter lending club london marketplace medical music new zealand p2p peer to peer perspective real estate regulation a regulations research sec seedrs singapore tactics technology title III uk united kingdom video games
© 2016 Crowded Media Group. All Rights Reserved.