The value of bitcoin was little changed Monday, as the market hovered below a key psychological resistance amid continued strength for the US dollar.
The BTC/USD exchange rate was little changed at 614.84 as of 2:45 pm ET, according to CoinDesk. The pair was down as much as 1.3% earlier in the day, reaching a session low of $611.16. Bitcoin is trading just below $620, the bottom of the psychological range.
Demand for the US dollar remained firm Monday, as investors raised their bets on a year-end rate hike by the Federal Reserve. The dollar index rose 0.3% to 96.91, the highest since late July.
The market for fiat currency has grown more volatile in recent weeks, as the combination of monetary policy speculation, Brexit talks and US election jitters led to a huge divergence between currencies. The dollar has been the prime benefactor, whereas the British pound has plummeted.
There were few catalysts in the cryptocurrency market at the start of the week. The BTC/USD remains in the bullish zone, with investors eyeing a bigger breakout int he short term. Bitcoin’s value has appreciated more than 1% against the dollar over the past five days.
Bitcoin was in the news earlier this month after US Republican Congressman Mick Mulvaney said most lawmakers do not know the difference between bitcoin and the blockchain technology that underlies it. This necessitated the formation of the bipartisan Blockchain Caucus last month.
“[W]e really started this caucus as a sort of way to introduce our colleagues and their staff members to what this technology is so that when they start to hear more and more about it, and they will start to hear more about it, that they have good information as we start to talk about things we can do in terms of government policies,” Mulvaney told Bloomberg in a live interview earlier this month.
Blockchain is the underlying technology that drives bitcoin.
EconomicCalendar.com provides the latest economic news and financial events that move the market.
U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) Under Pressure in Today’s Trading
Sam Bourgi is a financial market analyst for economiccalendar.com. He has more than six years of progressive experience in economic and financial analysis, research consulting and sectoral analysis. As a published author in government, peer-reviewed, online and industry sources, he has developed a fundamental approach to the financial markets with a broad focus on stock indices, commodities and the technology sector. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Windsor and Master’s degree from McMaster University.
Light Sweet Crude Oil Futures,D 47.48 -0.01 -0.02%
Gold Prices End at More Than Nine-Month Lows
WTI Oil Prices Decline Sharply on OPEC Deal Uncertainty
DJIA Today: Dow Futures Record New Highs on Black Friday
Oil Futures Moves Sharply Lower Over OPEC Concerns
Thanksgiving Cheer Spreads to Wall Street as S&P 500 Futures Extend Record
Nasdaq Composite Index Forms Intra-Day & Closing Record High on Black Friday
Trading forex, equities, CFDs, or other assets carries financial risk. You may lose your initial deposit or more. The information on this website is provided for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as financial advice. Trading is risky. Always consult with an independent financial adviser to give you trading advice tailored to your individual circumstances. View the Full Disclaimer Here
NZD/USD Declines to Friday’s Lows As The Greenback Recovers