Bitcoin Looks Poised to Accelerate Sharply - CryptoCoinsNews
Submit a Press Release Advertise Write for CCN News Tips Contact
Bitcoin Blockchain FinTech ETH Learn Free PR Widget
ell, it took a short while, but the first of the resistance arcs holding back Bitcoin price gave way today.  The 2nd arc of the pair is resisting as of this writing, but it seems highly likely that this resistance will also fail, and make the 5th arc pair the next target.
This suggests a target in the $850 range as the next target.  This price was indicated in a setup we looked at on these pages almost 2 weeks ago. It is increasingly looking like this is a good market to be in.  Let’s look at a longer bull setup of the same daily chart:
This was the chart we looked at a few weeks ago and concluded that the long term trend for the next several months was up.
Nothing has changed. In fact, this longer term setup strikes me as VERY bullish.  The 1st chart we looked at above, suggests resistance at $850, but the latter chart suggests the possibility of a new high by the end of the year.  That 5th arc pair is way up in the $1450 range.
Note that on this setup we are just a day or two or three from the end of the 3rd square.  This could herald a reversal of course (never say never).  But it seems far more likely to me that an acceleration to the upside beckons.  Based on the surrender of the 1st of the 4th arc pair in the first chart, I have re-entered a long position with a stop that is a bit wider than normal in case the 2nd arc of the pair kicks price back for a bit.  But in this case, even though the 2nd arc of the pair is still resisting, I am willing to throw away some caution, because it is starting to look like a very good trading opportunity might be on the horizon.
Remember:  The author is a trader who is subject to all manner of error in judgement.  Do your own research, and be prepared to take full responsibility for your own trades.
Posted in: Bitcoin Analysis, Bitcoin Price News, News
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
NextMastercard Unveils its Own Set of Blockchain APIs01/11/2016
PreviousThe Govt. Realized Bitcoin Could Not Be Shut down, Says U.S. Federal Prosecutor01/11/2016
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.