CME Group Launches Bitcoin Price Indexes - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 14, 2016 at 15:55 GMT
CME Group has officially launched its bitcoin price indexes following months of development.
The derivatives giant has spent the last month beta testing its CME CF Bitcoin Reference Rate and CME CF Bitcoin Real Time Index in partnership with London-based firm Crypto Facilities. Announced earlier this year, the indexes leverage price data from a suite of global bitcoin exchanges in Asia, Europe and North America.
CME also disclosed the names of the independent advisory committee overseeing the price resources. Members include bitcoin advocate and author Andreas Antonopoulos and Imperial College London Professor William Knottenbelt.
When it first unveiled the price tools, CME said that it was aiming to provide institutional-grade resources for those trading in bitcoin markets. CME will release its reference bitcoin price at 15:00 UTC each day.
"These products are designed to allow bitcoin traders, companies and other users to rely on a credible reference rate price source," Sandra Ro, CME Group executive director, said at the time.
Disclosure: CME Group is an investor in Digital Currency Group, of which CoinDesk is a subsidiary.
Charlie Shrem to Kick Off New CoinDesk Event Series
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 22, 2016 at 15:10 | Pete Rizzo
Most R3 Members Will Invest in Funding Effort, Sources Say
Despite notable exits, sources say the majority of R3's members are likely to participate in its ongoing funding round.
Nov 16, 2016 at 17:00 | Corin Faife
The Korea Exchange, South Korea’s sole securities exchange operator, has launched a new service that utilizes blockchain technology.
Nov 15, 2016 at 20:59 | Corin Faife
Blockchain Credit Card Trial Puts New Twist on Retail Payments
Cupcakes on the blockchain? Not quite, but a new blockchain trial showcased how the tech could play a role in consumer payments.
Nov 15, 2016 at 17:30 | Corin Faife
China's CITIC Hosts Seminar on Banking and Blockchain
China's CITIC bank, one of the country's largest commercial banks, recently held a seminar devoted to blockchain.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.