Kim Dotcom Predicts Bitcoin Price To Hit $2000 – CoinSpeaker
Don’t Miss Deals As Bitcoin Black Friday 2016 Begins!
Goldman Sachs and Santander Leave R3 Blockchain Consortium
Bitcoin Price Leaps to $745 as Chinese Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low
CME Group Launches Bitcoin Reference Rate and Bitcoin Real Time Index
What Does a Donald Trump Presidency Mean for US-Based Fintech Companies
BITCOIN, CRYPTOCURRENCIES, NEWS, PRICE, STORY OF THE DAY
Kim Dotcom Predicts Bitcoin Price To Hit $2000
BY TATSIANA YABLONSKAYA ON MONDAY, OCTOBER 3RD, 2016 8:19AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT
According to the internet entrepreneur, the launch of MegaUpload 2.0 and BitCache will cause the bitcoin price surge.
Kim Dotcom, the internet entrepreneur, has recently surprised the bitcoin community with his forecast for bitcoin price. He published a tweet where predicted the bitcoin price to soar to $2000 in the next two years.
Kim Dotcom connects the possible rise with the launch of MegaUpload 2.0 and BitCache. In fact, the tweet is a reply to one of the Twitter user’s question about bitcoin price.
Kim Dotcom, whose endeavors have included one of the most successful file-sharing websites in history, Megaupload, and later the much more regulation-friendly Mega.co.nz as well as the halted Baboom music service, has always been a bitcoin supporter. He used to announce his intentions to strengthen the digital currency and other uses of distributed ledger technology.
Bitcache is expected to serve as a blockchain-powered method of attaching Bitcoin microtransactions to file transfers. There have been other attempts to intertwine the two in the past – the last one, Joystream, a torrent client paying users for sharing files in an effort to stabilize the distribution of files, was released last year. The operating principle of Joystream is creation of a market for consumer bandwidth.
In its turn, Bitcache will underpin the second version of Megaupload. It will, first of all, aim at attaching a value to every file download as well as protecting user privacy through encryption.
The new MegaUpload 2.0, scheduled to be launch in January 2017, is Kim’s third attempt of creation of an online file storage and distribution service. The first attempt, MegaUpload platform, was forcibly shut down by the US government agencies. After the first failure, Kim launched Mega, one more file storage and sharing service, that has been operating so far, though without Kim’s involvement after he had stepped down as the director in 2013.
Megaupload enabled file sharing for those who wasn’t able to use torrent applications for various reasons. There are multiple internet service providers that interrupt torrent traffic. However, as Megaupload transactions took place over the HTTP protocol, they would have worked in many cases.
Bitcache is believed to be able to provide a similar mainstream appeal for Bitcoin. While downloading files through the service, users will get acquainted with bitcoin as they will need to acquire it to activate downloads.
It is interesting that the date of MegaUpload 2.0 launch will coincide with the one in 2012 when the US Federal Bureau of Investigations shut down MegaUpload. According to Kim, the accounts of MegaUpload users will transfer to the new MegaUpload 2.0 platform and BitCache will be enabling Bitcoin microtransactions for content monetization by its users.
At the same time, Kim Dotcom is now fighting against the extradition appeal filed by the US authorities with New Zealand. The US authorities have been seeking to extradite Kim for years. The final arguments against Kim Dotcom’s extradition were presented at the New Zealand’s High Court last week.
“Overall the defense believes that MegaUpload and its employees enjoy safe harbor protection and can’t be held criminally liable for copyright infringement. As such, there is no extraditable offense,” argued Kim’s defense.
The case is likely to reach the Supreme Court no matter what the ruling from the High Court will be.
Don’t Miss Deals As Bitcoin Black Friday 2016 Begins!
Goldman Sachs and Santander Leave R3 Blockchain Consortium
Bitcoin Price Leaps to $745 as Chinese Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low
DECENT and ‘Naughty America Productions’ Partner to Create a Blockchain-based Content Distribution Platform
This Game Will Keep You Up All Night!
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
This game will keep you up all night!
The 20 Most Generous Billionaires In The World
10 Easy Skin Secrets Dermatologists Don’t Want You to Know
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
We welcome comments that advance the story directly or with relevant tangential information. We try to block comments that use offensive language, all capital letters or appear to be spam, and we review comments frequently to ensure they meet our standards. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Coinspeaker Ltd.
Morgan Stanley Might Leave Blockchain Consortium R3 CEV
Online Wallet Provider iPayYou Enables Bitcoin Payment for Amazon
Siemens and U.S. Startup LO3 Energy Partners on Blockchain Microgrids
Coinbase Promises to Fight the IRS in Court Over Data on All Active US Bitcoin Traders
Stripe Unveils Radar to Detect E-Commerce Fraud Behavior
TechCrunch Launches New Series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain’
Payoneer Raises $180M in Series E Funding Round to Help Businesses Move Money Across Borders
IBM to Invest $200 Million Into Watson Internet of Things A.I. Business in Germany
Copyright © 2016 STB Media Ltd. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of STB Media Ltd. is prohibited.