Watch all six episodes of Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain
10TH ANNUAL CRUNCHIES AWARDSThe Finalists Have Been Announced Get Your Tickets Today
Watch all six episodes of the series Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain
Posted Oct 15, 2016 by Travis Bernard (@travisbernard), Rebecca Friedman (@rebeccapf12)
Our latest video series explores the world of bitcoin and the blockchain, and you can now watch all six episodes on YouTube and TechCrunch.com.
The series features Nathaniel Popper, a New York Times reporter and the author of the book on which the series is based, along with several bitcoin developers, influencers and scholars tracing the history of bitcoin and analyzing its future.
Episode 1 seeks to explain the blockchain, the technology that allows bitcoins to be transferred between entities, and the motives behind its creators. The episode also examines the platform’s future and how it will be received by governments and big banks, the very institutions its creators were trying to sidestep — or even overturn.
Episode 2 explores bitcoin mining and the role that miners have in governing the system.
Episode 3 dives into bitcoin’s identity and how it must choose what it wants to be.
Episode 5 looks at Ethereum and its possible implications as well as the effects of a hack on its Decentralized Autonomous Organization.
Episode 6 explores the battle between the open blockchain (Silicon Valley) and the closed blockchain (Wall Street).
Tiny Device Allows You To Track Anything (it's Genius!)
Finally You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Bitcoin is a form of digital currency, created and held electronically. However, it is a currency not controlled by a central source. Bitcoins aren’t printed, like dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world, using software that solves mathematical problems. It is the first example of a growing category of money known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin …
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Facebook Builds a Censorship Tool | Crunch Report
Let’s have a little compassion for (some of) the trolls
CRM Berater (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
C++ Developer - Qt Product Development (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
Full Stack Engineer at FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
UI Engineering @ FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
Senior Backend Engineer @ MeetMe at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA, United States)
© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by