Bitcoin Bounces, Futures Flounder as Trump Nears Presidential Upset - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitcoin Bounces, Futures Flounder as Trump Nears Presidential Upset
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 9, 2016 at 05:39 GMT
Bitcoin prices have steadily risen since the counting of votes in the US presidential race began, climbing more than 3 percent as Republican Donald Trump appears close to pulling off an electoral upset.
The price of bitcoin is hovering around $737 after rising from a low of $709 when polls in the Eastern US began to close, according to the CoinDesk USD Bitcoin Price Index. CNY markets are up 2.4%, reaching ¥4,959.11 at press time.
Polls prior to the vote on Tuesday pointed to a likely win for Democrat Hillary Clinton. But with the results rolling in, Trump's chances for success have grown. Right now, the election could still swing either way, ultimately depending on the outcomes in a handful of districts in US states like New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Michigan.
At press time, Trump has 244 votes in the Electoral College to Clinton's 215, according to CBS, and The New York Times is forecasting a Trump win.
US stock futures have reacted negatively to Trump's possible victory, suggesting rough waters ahead when markets open later today. The Dow is down roughly 3.8% or 705 points in pre-market trading, according to CNN. S&P and Nasdaq futures are each down close to 5%.
Gemini Expands Bitcoin and Ether Exchange to New Asian...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 15, 2016 at 15:59 | Michael del Castillo
Blockchain Won't Just Change Regulation, it Could Reshape the SEC
SEC commissioner's departure are just part of the remaking of regulation thanks to Donald Trump and blockchain.
Nov 13, 2016 at 17:04 | Michael J Casey
Will Bitcoin Have its Moment in the Trump Era?
Why a Trump presidency might bring about the fall of the dollar, with digital money as its replacement.
Nov 10, 2016 at 12:16 | Stan Higgins
Trump Election Casts Uncertain Shadow on US Blockchain Policy
Leading blockchain policy groups weigh in on what a Trump victory means for the emerging technology and its startup community.
Nov 9, 2016 at 18:40 | Michael del Castillo
Veteran Bitcoin Legal Strategist Joins Firm Hosting Trump Transition Meetings
Veteran bitcoin lawyer Carol Van Cleef has officially joined Baker Hostetler, a law firm that will oversee President-elect Trump's transition.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.