Swiss rail service to sell Bitcoin at stations - The Local
Change editions:  Austria · Denmark · France · Germany · Italy · Norway · Spain · Sweden
Get the job you've always wanted with The Local Jobs
More English-language jobs in Switzerland than anyone else
But despite installing the machines, the digital currency won't be accepted as a payment method. Photo: Josep Lago / AFP file picture
Swiss rail service to sell Bitcoin at stations
Switzerland's national rail service (SBB) said Friday it was set to launch a new service selling the digital currency Bitcoin at all ticket machines across the country.
Zug to let residents pay bills using bitcoin (10 May 16)
The SBB said it had been testing customer demand for Bitcoin across the wealthy Alpine federation and decided to launch a two-year pilot project beginning on November 11.
"Until now, there have only been limited opportunities to purchase Bitcoin in Switzerland," the rail service said in a statement.
It said that it would use its network of 1,000 ticket machines to let customers swap other currencies for Bitcoin, provided they give a mobile phone number for identification.
Swiss financial services company SweePay is providing the electronic conversion services.
Transactions will be capped at 500 Swiss francs ($500, 460 euros) each but SBB stressed customers will not be allowed to buy tickets with the e-money.
Bitcoin "is not accepted as a payment method," the state-owned company said.
Swiss people in favour of early nuclear withdrawal
Swiss banks seek heirs for millions in dormant accounts
With the current value of the currency around 689 Swiss francs, customers "will be able to purchase fractions of Bitcoin," a CFF spokesman told AFP.
Bitcoin has stirred interest as a way to move money around the world with no fees or bank involvement, but secrecy surrounding the currency, including its creator, have led to some to questions on its stability and transparency.
For more news from Switzerland, join us on Facebook and Twitter.
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple Solution
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 million players.
Swiss people in favour of early nuclear withdrawal
Swiss theatre docked funds for mocking populist MP
Theater Neumarkt's 2017 grant is slashed after a "voodoo" performance attacking Roger Köppel.
Drones to help Swiss rescue dogs find missing people
Switzerland's dog rescue volunteers have teamed up with the Swiss Federation of Civil Drones for the new venture.
WTO chief: 'I don't know what Trump's trade policies are'
The head of the World Trade Organization said he has received no indication the United States would move to leave the WTO under Donald Trump's administration. 4 comments
Skiers will get their hands on a season pass for the impressively low price of 222 francs ($218) after 75,000 people signed up for the crowdfunded deal.
Zurich: Patients should have easier access to cannabis
Authorities in Zurich want to issue a special ID card to help people who need cannabis for medical reasons.
Cyclist must pay $400,000 in damages after fatal accident
Court finds cyclist guilty of causing the death of a fellow competitor in a 2014 cycle race. 2 comments
Swiss charity tackles toy company with Barbie stunt
Solidar Switzerland invited passers by to pose for photographs next to a flesh-and-blood figure of Barbie's beau Ken to highlight dire working conditions in Chinese toy factories.
Winterthur in eastern Switzerland. File photo: Simon Aughton
Should a mosque whose imam is charged with inciting violence be saved?
Calmy-Rey and Clinton were involved in diplomacy at the time of the donation. Photo: Maria Belen Perez Gabilondo/AFP
‘No conflict of interests' over Clinton donation: Bern
No action will be taken over the Swiss government's half-a-million-franc donation to the Clinton Foundation. 5 comments
Montreux Noël has introduced extra security measures this year in light of recent terror attacks in Europe.
Zurich: Patients should have easier access to cannabis
Cyclist must pay $400,000 in damages after fatal accident
Zurich named one of world's ‘most inspiring' cities
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 million players.
Swiss banks seek heirs for millions in dormant accounts
Zermatt named ‘Best Ski Resort' in Alps – again
'It's like a collective suicidal leap into the unknown'
New Swiss device could help paralyzed people to walk
UK Toblerone fans outraged over Swiss choc's new shape
Swiss wins bravery prize for helping refugees in Greece
Six brilliant ways to survive November in Switzerland
Imam faces prosecution after police raid Winterthur mosque
World's shortest international flight of 8 minutes takes off
Swiss rail service to sell Bitcoin at stations
Herd of cows killed in fire on Swiss farm
VIDEO: driver chases runaway car on Swiss motorway
SBB pilots new annual pass – costing 12,200 francs
Swiss government rejects call for second immigration vote
Brothers go to court to stop suicide of sibling
Zurich photographer Steven Anggrek in NYC Art Exhibition!
THE VAGINA MONOLOGUES - ACTORS & VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
The 11 best school systems in the world
Why so very late? [Women&#039;s right to vote in&hellip;
EU national moving to Switzerland to be self-employed