Florida Man Charged In Connection With Illegal Bitcoin Exchange | PYMNTS.com
Florida Man Charged In Connection With Illegal Bitcoin Exchange
U.S. prosecutors late last week charged a Florida man in connection with an illegal bitcoin exchange.
According to a report by Reuters, Ricardo Hill, 38, was arrested in Florida in October and charged with conspiring to operate an unlicensed money transmitting firm. Hill is linked to an illegal bitcoin exchange owned by a person in Israel that is accused of hacks on JPMorgan Chase. The report noted Hill was released on a $75,000 bond after he appeared in court.
The report noted Hill is one of nine people who are facing charges as part of the hack of JPMorgan, which the bank disclosed in 2014. The records of more than 83 million accounts were compromised in that incident. Hill was the finance support manager and a business development consultant for Coin.mx, which is a bitcoin exchange that is unlicensed. Prosecutors contend Coin.mx was operated by Anthony Murgio of Florida and owned by Gery Shalon, the Israeli accused of being behind the JPMorgan hack and that of other companies.
This spring, according to indictment documents that were recently unsealed in the case of the hacks into financial services players, including JPMorgan, E*TRADE Financial, Scottrade Financial Services and Dow Jones, the three hackers that were involved in illegally intercepting information about stock prices linked to an illegal online gambling ring had a connection to bitcoin — potentially.
The link is a little circuitous since there was a bribery scheme in the mix, wrapped around some good, old-fashioned money laundering, which is, of course, how bitcoin comes into play.
RELATED ITEMS:BITCOIN, DIGITAL CURRENCY, JPMORGAN, SECURITY & FRAUD, WHAT'S HOT
Black Friday Highlights Trouble In US Retail Lending
Ex-Expedia Exec Raises Funds For Secretive New Startup
Get our hottest stories delivered to your inbox.
Signup for the PYMNTS.com Newsletter to get updates on top stories and viral hits.
Financial Regulators Race To Get Reforms On The Books Before Inauguration Day
Why Insider Threats Are Hurting North American Businesses
Amidst New Cash Rules, Uber Debuts Indian Wedding Service
Online Fraud Expected To Grow 43 Percent This Holiday Season In The US
CFPB Sues Company That Scammed Lead Paint Poisioning Victims
Prime Is The Ticket For Amazon: Prime Tickets On The Way
India’s Axis Bank Joins Earthport In X-Border Payments
October Visa Data Shows Rise In EMV-Enabled Merchants
Amazon’s Brand Central Aimed At Ridding Counterfeiters From Marketplace
Monday Is Black Friday For Shipments This Holiday Season
The Seven Deadly Data Sins Of The 2016 Presidential Election
The 2016 Presidential Election And Banks’ Next Four Scary Years
What the Uber Driver Revolt Means for Payments
© 2016 What’s Next Media and Data Analytics, LLC