Winklevoss twins choose State Street as administrator and transfer agent of Bitcoin ETF - EconoTimes
FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
BTC/SGD faces strong support at 23.6% fibo, good to buy on dips
BTC/GBP takes support at 21-DMA, break below targets 550
FxWirePro: ETH/EUR faces strong support 8 level, good to sell on rallies
Winklevoss twins choose State Street as administrator and transfer agent of Bitcoin ETF
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the co-founders of Gemini bitcoin exchange, have chosen State Street as the administrator and transfer agent for the Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust, their proposed bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF).
According to a new SEC filing: “Digital Asset Services, LLC, formerly Math-Based Asset Services, LLC, is the sponsor of the Trust (the “Sponsor”); Delaware Trust Company is the trustee of the Trust (the “Trustee”); State Street Bank and Trust Company (“State Street”) is both the administrator (the “Administrator”) and transfer agent (the “Transfer Agent) of the Trust; and Gemini Trust Company, LLC, an affiliate of the Sponsor, is the custodian of the Trust (the “Custodian”).”
In its capacity as the Trust’s administrator, State Street will be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Trust which includes maintaining the books of account; calculating the NAV; transmitting the NAV per Share to the transfer agent, the sponsor, Bats, and other entities as directed by the sponsor; and preparing financial information. As the Trust’s transfer agent, State Street will provide its services with respect to the creation and redemption of ‘Baskets’ by authorized participants; the issuance and redemption of shares, the payment, if any, of distributions with respect to the shares; the recording of the issuance of the shares and the maintaining of certain records.
“The Trust is expected to issue and redeem Shares from time to time only in one or more whole blocks of 10,000 Shares (each block of 10,000 Shares is a “Basket”)”, the filing explains.
The filing also states that the ETF would use a "purpose-built" system to verify that the associated custodians hold control of the private keys, CoinDesk noted.
“The Custodian’s Cold Storage System was purpose-built to demonstrate “proof of control” of the private keys associated with its public Bitcoin addresses. The Sponsor and the Custodian have engaged an independent audit firm to verify that the Custodian can demonstrate “proof of control” of the private keys that control the Trust’s bitcoin (“Proof of Control Audit”) on a monthly basis”, the filing reads.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close below 14.01 targets 14.70 - EconoTimes
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
New Finger Camera Tech Helps Blind People Read Printed Words
Princess Leia Memory Wave Helps The Brain Better Store Memory
Terrorism And AI Mix Seems Inevitable, Spells Disaster
Biological vs chronological age: how old are you really?
Watch: Virtual Reality Training For Police To Help Reduce Shootings
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
Why batteries have started catching fire so often
AI Should Get Credit For Its Inventions Law Expert Says
Elon Musk: Advanced Artificial Intelligence Could Destroy The Internet
DIY networking: the path to a more democratic internet
Samsung Banking On Foldable Phone Revolution, Patent Published
Market-moving news and views, 24 hours a day >
296m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
296m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
297m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
297m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
297m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Tech City UK to deliver HM Treasury's fintech measures
FxWirePro: AUD/NZD bulls in intermediated trend rebuild positive momentum, major trend drives in non-directional, upswings implied by interest rate
FxWirePro: USD/TWD exhibits range bound movement, bias remains neutral
UK Q3 GDP shows high resilience post-Brexit, Q4 could see positive surprise
What can obesity control learn from tobacco control's success?
US Election Series: Jill Stein raises $4.5 million to challenge election outcome
Study Says Practice Tests Help Maintain Memory Condition During Exams
National Bank of Malawi chooses fintech firm NetGuardians for fraud prevention
FxWirePro: GBP/USD faces strong resistance at 1.2530, good to sell on rallies
FxWirePro:USD/CHF forms Bearish Bat pattern, good to sell on rallies
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close...
Bitfinex spokesman resigns due to ‘insane conspiracy theories’ - Econo...
Vdice is neither provably fair or decentralised.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1646783.ms...more
When Blockchain and Decentralization Disrupt Gambling - EconoTimes
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...more
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says...
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
Bitcoin and blockchain investment activity drops in Q3 2016 - EconoTim...
You do know his character's name is Steve, don't you? ;)
‘Hawaii Five-O’ Season 7, Episode 9 Spoilers: "Two Days in November" –...
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
India likely to witness a weak Q4 on adverse demonetization effects, says...
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR remains well supported below 14.50 mark, sustained close...
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR hits fresh 2-month high at 14.56, faces strong resistance...
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
MHI/YouGov Survey Finds Americans’ Joys, Anxieties About Thanksgiving Are...
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
December US Fed Interest Rate Hike – First of Many? - EconoTimes
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
BTC/EUR faces strong resistance around 715, break above targets 740 - ...
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
MAS and R3 partner to carry out blockchain-based inter-bank payments -...
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
Deutsche Bank turmoil shows risks of weakening bank capital standards -...
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
How can we prevent type 2 diabetes in children? - EconoTimes
Thank you very much for these daily articles on the USD/ZAR pair!
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
The huge political cost of Blair's decision to allow Eastern European migrants...