Bitcoin price soars as Trump pulls ahead - MarketWatch
BULLETIN Cuba's Fidel Castro has died at 90: reports
Bitcoin prices soared as Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump pulled ahead of his rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton, rattling stocks and sending safety plays like gold sharply higher. Bitcoin was up 2.6% at $724 in recent trade. The bulk of trading volume was conducted in U.S. dollars, according to CoinMarketCap.com, suggesting that U.S.-based investors were responsible for the surge.
10 of the prettiest towns in the U.S. where you can retire reasonably well
Apple nabs obscene share of smartphone profit thanks to Samsung’s Note 7 debacle
As Card Rewards Mount, Visa and Mastercard Win Big
Tesla’s Model X is ‘fast and flawed,’ Consumer Reports says
U.S. stocks hit new records and post third straight week of gains
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
Billionaire Ron Burkle is buyer behind Bob Hope’s iconic Palm Springs mansion
Insight and analysis on a Donald Trump presidency
Melania Trump may be right: Moving in middle of school year could mess up kids
Opinion: A 12-step plan to strengthen your portfolio after Trump's victory
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.