Is CoinsBank The 'New Bank' On The Blockchain?
OCT 10, 2016 @ 02:33 PM 3,788 VIEWS
Is CoinsBank The 'New Bank' On The Blockchain?
I write about financial markets, exchanges, IT and trading technology.
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Down at the Mediterranean ‘melting pot’ on the Turkish Riviera this weekend, leading thinkers and shapers from the cryptocurrency fraternity came together to witness what is being dubbed the first “challenger bank” on the Blockchain, the decentralized technology revolutionizing the way people around the world exchange value.
A series of presentations and debates at the event held off the Anatolian coast in Belek ranged from the intricacies of IBM’s Hyperledger vision, how the Blockchain is impacting all industries, right through to the emergence of crypto remittance corridors drawing inspiration from the ancient Inca trade in Latin America, plus potential for cryptocurrency to be applied for the games industry.
Set against a stunning backdrop of sun-kissed beaches and golf courses dotted along the Belek strip – including the course where the Turkish Open is being held this month – the Danish serial entrepreneur Ronny Boesing and CEO of CoinsBank declared that CoinsBank is the “new bank on the block” offering a range of full banking services on the Blockchain.
So what’s it all about from a bank that has a registered office in Edinburgh in the UK and operates from offices across Europe you might ask?
Effectively CoinsBank offers many of the services a traditional bank can provide its customers, but is adding Blockchain benefits as a layer on the top. It is also working on adding other new services – including corporate solutions and live customer support  – that are expected to be added over the coming months.
A conceptual image for crypto with golden bitcoin, wallet and banknote background. (Image: Shutterstock).
Delivering a Keynote address to delegates at the Gloria Serenity hotel and resort in Belek, Boesing revealed: “We are introducing a new type of safe wallet with multi-signature hardware.”
Microsoft's Surface Phone Could Be The Ultimate Mobile Device
Mamá Millonaria De Lima Cuenta La Historia De Cómo Se Gana $472/hr Desde Casa
The Diabetes Breakthrough Your Doctor Won't Tell You About
La "Píldora Billonaria": Dobla Tu CI En Solo 14 Días!
Abuela De 72 Años Choca Dermatólogos: 20 Años Más Joven, Con Esta Crema
Sorprendente Producto Mágico Regenera El Cabello Durante La Noche
Join Revcontent To Increase User Engagement and Reach