Will Trump's Presidency Spell Good News for Bitcoin? - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Will Trump’s Presidency Spell Good News for Bitcoin?
The election of Donald Trump as the next president of the United States has evoked few mixed feelings among the population, but will he be good for Bitcoin?
Will Bitcoin emerge as a winner in the United States following the election of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States? A significant number of US residents are not happy with the outcome of the recent elections which has created an uncertainty in the market, in turn, reducing the confidence among traders and investors. However, Bitcoin has emerged as a winner in this scenario.
Once reports of Trump’s win hit the media, Bitcoin saw a sudden surge in its prices. The positive effect of political scenario on Bitcoin was mainly due to the absence of correlation between the digital currency and conventional financial assets. In an interview with one of the leading business news and analysis portals, Christopher Burniske – the Blockchain Products Lead at ARK Invest had only positive things to say about the digital currency.
According to Christopher’s view, Trump has to apply his “for the people” message used during the presidential campaign to the digital currency sector as well. As Bitcoin is also designed for the people, he can encourage the cryptocurrency industry to come up with new innovations across multiple sectors.
Also, if Donald Trump puts his capital control plans into practice, then there is also a possibility of people turning towards Bitcoin, similar to the situation in China. However, with markets eventually stabilizing, the digital currency will continue to be a safe haven alternative asset that can sustain through adverse market conditions.
He also compares the digital currency’s performance against gold, which has not fared as expected with the upcoming transition.
Donald Trump, being an unconventional candidate at the moment may turn out to be good for the cryptocurrency ecosystem. Even though there is no certainty about what his policies towards digital currencies will be, it is time for the cryptocurrency industry to lobby for favorable regulations during his tenure.  It is not just the digital currency groups that have their hopes up, various citizen groups have already started appealing to Trump to offer a presidential pardon to Julian Assange, the person behind well-known whistle-blower website WikiLeaks.
Currently all we can do is hope for Donald Trump’s presidency to turn out to be the golden era for cryptocurrencies.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.