Bitcoin searches for itself in the third episode of Bitcoin and the Blockchain | TechCrunch
10TH ANNUAL CRUNCHIES AWARDSThe Finalists Have Been Announced Get Your Tickets Today
Bitcoin searches for itself in the third episode of Bitcoin and the Blockchain
Posted Oct 11, 2016 by Matt Burns (@mjburnsy)
As Bitcoin has grown, it’s been forced to contend with a flood of traffic on the network. Developers are divided about what to do. The scalers want more transactions running through the blockchain. The decentralizers say this threatens Bitcoin’s character. Now, Bitcoin must choose what it wants to be and that’s the core of the third episode in our series on Bitcoin and the Blockchain.
Should the number of transaction be increased? Or should Bitcoin be smaller to ensure its security?
Tiny Device Allows You To Track Anything (it's Genius!)
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Bitcoin is a form of digital currency, created and held electronically. However, it is a currency not controlled by a central source. Bitcoins aren’t printed, like dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world, using software that solves mathematical problems. It is the first example of a growing category of money known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin …
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Facebook Builds a Censorship Tool | Crunch Report
U.K. gov’t agrees to foreground privacy statement in surveillance bill
CRM Berater (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
C++ Developer - Qt Product Development (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
Full Stack Engineer at FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
UI Engineering @ FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
Senior Backend Engineer @ MeetMe at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA, United States)
© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by