Bitcoin Price Watch; Gearing Up For The Breakout! - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Price Watch; Gearing Up For The Breakout!
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this morning.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Right then. The final day of the week, here already. Where will the bitcoin price take us today? The answer we’re all hoping for is… Up! We’ve topped out around 775-780 overnight, putting us (and to steal a phrase from last night’s analysis) within touching distance of the 800 mark.
Will this finally be the day we reach it? Maybe.
When 700 broke, price toyed with the level for a while before finally committing. There’s a chance that we might see some similar action again, as markets bustle at either side of the bid to pick up a position, and establish some degree of parity before the break.
This may be happening as we speak (and I’m sure it is, to some degree) but it also may take another few days.
Anyway, with that said, let’s get to what we are focusing on today, and see if we can’t draw a profit from the market regardless of what levels are hit and not.
So, take a look at the chart below to get an idea of our key levels for this morning. As ever, it’s a five-minute candlestick chart, and it’s got our range in focus overlaid in green.
As the chart shows, the range for this morning’s session is defined by in term support to the downside at 768, and in term resistance to the upside at 776. We’ve tightened things in a little after last night’s session, and we will be focusing on a breakout strategy for the time being primarily.
So, if price breaks through in term resistance, we are going to look at getting in long towards an immediate upside target of 782. A stop on the trade at 773 defines risk. Conversely, a close below support will signal short towards 760 flat. A stop at 771 on this one works well.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.