CNBC Interviews Reaffirms Bitcoin's Position in the Global Economy - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
CNBC Interviews Reaffirms Bitcoin’s Position in the Global Economy
The role of Bitcoin in the global economy is expected to expand as it overcomes various challenges. Read more...
Bitcoin, the popular digital currency is going strong despite snail-paced development when it comes to fixing scalability issues.  The previous concerns about Bitcoin turning into a very long failed experiment seems to be resolving itself.
A series of interviews conducted by a leading financial media outlet has reaffirmed faith in the digital currency. However, this doesn’t mean that road ahead is smooth for Bitcoin. The emergence of Bitcoin as a valuable, alternate form of currency was influenced by troubles in the global economy.
Bitcoin was introduced during the times of crisis facing the global economy which forced a lot of big American banks to either shut down or seek the government bailout. Since then, Bitcoin has been slowly expanding its community until it turned into a major force by the end of 2013. With signs of trouble still lingering over the US economy, Bitcoin reached its all-time high of over $1100 before it came crashing, thanks to the Mt Gox incident. The dip was further affected by FBI’s action against Silk Road, a popular darknet marketplace.
Bitcoin became popular as the go-to currency for illegal transactions involving drugs, weapons, and contraband. While the digital currency gained notoriety as the preferred currency of the criminal kind, it received the much-required exposure (even though negative) to gain more adoption. Cybercriminals, darknet marketplaces aside, the cryptocurrency has since then managed to shed its negative image to become the most popular alternative to conventional fiat currency. Bitcoin now holds a unique position in the global economy as currency and an asset.
According to Blockchain.info, average Bitcoin transactions per day has crossed 200,000 compared to 90,000 during the peak in 2013. Many countries have recognized bitcoin as a financial instrument. However, the digital currency now faces stiff competition from other altcoins which have managed to carve out a position for themselves in the global economy. While they can’t replace Bitcoin completely yet, they have opened up the distributed ledger technology for mainstream banking and financial institutions.
As the adoption of blockchain across mainstream industries increases, Bitcoin is facing scalability issues due to lack of consensus. This divide among the Bitcoin community may prove costly for the digital currency in the current competitive situation. And then there is the question of its usage by cybercriminals. Cybercriminals are increasingly using Bitcoin as the preferred currency for demanding ransom from their targets. The number of ransomware and DDoS attacks linked to Bitcoin demands has increased considerably in the recent months. While the law enforcement agencies with the help of blockchain startups work hard to tackle these challenges, the digital currency so far remains unaffected, attracting more people to into the community.
The increased stability of Bitcoin price shows that the cryptocurrency is still going strong, with unlimited potential. The challenges, volatility and regulatory uncertainty associated with Bitcoin are there to stay for the moment. But in the near future, the digital currency may emerge as a winner after all.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.