John McAfee Expresses Concern Over Mobile Bitcoin Wallet Security
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
John McAfee Expresses Concern Over Mobile Bitcoin Wallet Security
One thing people tend to forget is how we secure Bitcoin wallets on our mobile devices.
Many cryptocurrency users store funds on their smartphone or other mobile devices. Wth a vast plethora of Bitcoin wallets to choose from, that seems to be the most logical and secure solution. But John McAfee feels otherwise, as he feels smartphone usage will leave Bitcoin in “chaos.” In his opinion, developers need to pay far more attention to security.
The statement made by John McAfee will upset quite a few people, even though there is some truth to his words. Security is a critical part of any financial ecosystem, and Bitcoin is no exception. Although the protocol is secure, the devices we use to store and access funds are not. Computers and mobile devices are prone to hacking, malware attack, and user negligence.
John McAfee Knows THe Security Business Like No Other
McAfee strongly feels the lack of security provided by mobile Bitcoin solutions is troublesome. It all comes down to the interaction between end user and technology. We take a lot of things for granted, even though that should not be the case. In fact, it seems using smartphones to interact with the Bitcoin network could lead to all kinds of trouble.
One thing people tend to forget is how we secure Bitcoin wallets on our mobile devices. This is done either with SMS verification, a PIN code, or a gesture. Neither of these options is very secure, to begin with, yet we trust the technology to safeguard our funds. The only money we have full control over is “protected” by virtually nothing.
Even though mobile wallets make using Bitcoin far more convenient, the security concerns should not be dismissed. Granted, it is possible to buy dedicated hardware wallets, but sending funds requires an intermediary device. Moreover, if cryptocurrency is to go mainstream, consumers will access it through a device they carry around all the time already. In this case, that will be their mobile phone.
Is it time to introduce new security measures for mobile Bitcoin usage? John McAfee certainly seems to think so, and it is hard to disagree with him. Bitcoin will not go away, but only if new features and security precautions are introduced on a  regular basis. Staying one step ahead of hackers and other criminals is of the utmost importance now even more than ever.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.