NetBet Becomes the First Licensed UK Gambling Site to Accept Bitcoin | Benzinga
NetBet Becomes the First Licensed UK Gambling Site to Accept Bitcoin
LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Oct. 27, 2016) - UK bookmaker and online casino operator, NetBet, announced today that they would accept Bitcoin for bets on their sportsbook and casino products. In doing so, they have become the first licensed operator in the UK to embrace the virtual currency.
NetBet spokesman, Alexandre Mangaud, says, "We have been looking at digital currencies for some time now; it has a growing user-base and was something we wanted to offer our customers. Since Bitcoin is new to the regulated gambling industry in Europe, we've worked closely with our payment processing partners to ensure that the addition of this new payment method meets the UK Gambling Commission regulatory requirements."
Bitcoin is now accepted by a number of major retailers including Expedia, Microsoft, Virgin Galactic and Dell and now NetBet joins their ranks in a first for British bookmakers.
NetBet customers will now have the option to use Bitcoin to load their accounts via the Neteller and PaySafe payment methods.
NetBet are an established brand in regulated European markets including the UK, France, Italy, Greece, Ireland, Germany and Romania. The company offers a sportsbook, an online casino and online poker to its customers. The company are official sponsors of West Bromwich Albion for the 2015-16 season and they also sponsor St. Etienne and Ajaccio in France, as well as Steaua Bucharest in Romania.
1 CHGG, BBD: 20 Stocks Moving In Friday's Pre-Market Session
2 CTRP, IIIN: Must Watch Stocks for November 25, 2016
3 CXRX: Concordia Healthcare Bondholder Calls For Immediate Chang...
5 QUNR, CTRP: Brean Gives 3 Reasons To Buy Ctrip
6 ADDYY, FL: The Hottest Shoe Stock May Surp...
7 ANSS, WDC: Watch These 5 Huge Cal...
View upcoming Earnings, Ratings, Dividend and Economic Calendars.
Saudi Arabia Is Willing To Crash Oil Prices
Megyn Kelly Describes How Roger Ailes Harassed Her: It's Nasty
Steve Bannon Loses Chief of Staff Post After Embarrassing Trump Wit...
Saudis Cling To Market Share By Ramping January Oil Exports To Asia
Backers of California Secession From US 'Seek to Open Embassy in Ru...
Benzinga is a fast-growing, dynamic and innovative financial media outlet that empowers investors with high-quality, unique content.