Bitcoin Update Brings Scaling Solution Closer to Activation - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitcoin Update Brings Scaling Solution Closer to Activation
Alyssa Hertig (@AlyssaHertig) | Published on October 31, 2016 at 15:20 GMT
An update to the bitcoin software that features code that could potentially activate a long-anticipated scaling solution has been released.
Issued on Thursday and dedicated solely to code called Segregated Witness (SegWit), version 0.13.1 allows miners to signal support for the scaling solution after 15th November. If activated, the code also instructs nodes on how to validate the new type of transactions that will result from the patch. (SegWit boosts the bitcoin block size by a factor of about 1.8x by moving transaction signatures to another data structure).
But there are still a series of steps left before the software will be triggered through a process known as a soft fork.
For one, the update requires near-universal support from miners. The code will be 'locked-in' once 95% of a series of 2,016 blocks (roughly two weeks worth of blocks) are broadcast by those running the new code. Next, wallet holders will need to make changes if they want to take advantage of the update.
However, despite high expectations, it's unclear whether SegWit will reach the 95% threshold.
Mining pool ViaBTC has been particularly outspoken about its support for alternative scaling proposals, arguing that bigger blocks should still be considered as a scaling mechanism. However, the pool (which makes up roughly 5% of bitcoin’s mining power) has seen its support dwindle, perhaps as a result of its controversial stance.
If triggered, code change also paves the way for other updates, including the Lightning Network (another proposed scaling solution), and easier future soft forks. Other potential benefits are detailed on the Bitcoin Core website.
But while there are a still a few steps to go (and a few signs of division among supporters), Bitcoin Core developer Greg Maxwell has been optimistic.
In a recent reddit post, Maxwell indicated that he believes the code could be "active by Christmas".
Cryptsy Class Action to Settle With Ex-Wife of Troubled CEO
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 18, 2016 at 14:14 | Alyssa Hertig
Bitcoin Miners Can Now Signal Support for SegWit
If they so choose, miners can now safely signal their support for a major bitcoin update.
Nov 12, 2016 at 15:30 | Alyssa Hertig
What's Left Before Bitcoin's Lightning Network Goes Live
There aren't many steps left before bitcoin's Lightning Network will be finished — or at least an early version of it.
Nov 11, 2016 at 17:45 | Stan Higgins
One in Four Bitcoin Nodes Are Now Upgraded for SegWit
Bitcoin network data shows that 25 percent of nodes worldwide are signaling support for Segregated Witness.
Oct 20, 2016 at 17:56 | Jacob Donnelly
ViaBTC Rises: How A Mysterious Miner Could Decide Bitcoin's Future
The future of bitcoin could be impacted by a mysterious new mining pool, one that has shown it's willing to go its own way on technical debates.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.