ECB Feels Threatened by Bitcoin, Ask EU to Rein in Virtual Currencies - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
ECB Feels Threatened by Bitcoin, Ask EU to Rein in Virtual Currencies
The ECB, in its legal opinion, asks EU institutions to stop promoting Bitcoin and other virtual currencies to ensure that the Central Bank continues to maintain control over the monetary system. Read more...
Bitcoin is probably the most disruptive innovation of this century. As the decentralized cryptocurrency continues to revolutionize the global financial system, the European Central Bank has started to feel the heat. In a recent statement, ECB has asked lawmakers in the European Union to tighten the regulatory screws around Bitcoin and other digital currency to save itself from losing control over the financial system.
The ECB’s statement on Bitcoin and virtual currencies was part of the legal opinion published earlier today. In the document, the central bank has made it clear that it doesn’t want EU institutions to promote the use of virtual currencies as they don’t have a clear legal status in the region.  However, the statement seems to be in direct contradiction to various rulings by the European Court of Justice which has on many occasions extended Bitcoin privileges similar to those enjoyed by fiat currencies.
READ MORE: Top EU Court Official Supports VAT-Free Bitcoin Sales
Many EU nations have a favorable outlook towards Bitcoin and its underlying technology. The increasing adoption of virtual currencies in recent days stands proof of the digital currency’s growing popularity in the region.
“The reliance of economic actors on virtual currency units, if substantially increased in the future, could in principle affect the central banks’ control over the supply of money… Thus (EU legislative bodies) should not seek in this particular context to promote a wider use of virtual currencies.”
While ECB continues to talk tough on Bitcoin, the central bank has been making plans to adopt its underlying technology. A recent report by ECB lists various applications of blockchain technology, especially when it comes to Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Customer policies. The report titled “Distributed Ledger Technologies in Securities Post-Trading — Revolution or Evolution?” lists the potential impact on distributed ledger technology in different layers of post-trading (settlement and custody layers). It also touches upon the potential impact of blockchain technology on eGovernance and internal efficiency of institutions.
ECB’s views on Bitcoin and its underlying technology is not new, as many central banks share the same opinion. They are all looking forward to leverage upon the potential benefits of blockchain technology while ignoring the advantages offered by Bitcoin and other digital currencies, fearing that they might have to forfeit their control over the monetary system.
Ref: Reuters | ECB | Image: The Telegraph
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.