Central Banks Find It Hard to Ignore Blockchain Technology - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Central Banks Find It Hard to Ignore Blockchain Technology
Central banks are increasingly showing interest in blockchain technology as it has the potential to reduce costs and increase the efficiency of its operations. Read more...
The interest in cryptocurrencies and their underlying technology is at an all-time high. While the climbing Bitcoin price stands proof to the increasing interest in the digital currency, at least 100 research and white papers published by various banking and financial institutions vouch for blockchain technology. The global economy is based on a centralized model, but increasingly the Central Banks that play a major role in monetary policies are focusing towards the implementation of blockchain based systems across their network.
Most Central Banks don’t have the intention to recognize or allow the adoption of Bitcoin, mainly due to its global and decentralized nature. But the distributed ledger and its potential to simplify the record keeping, tracking and accounting process makes it hard to ignore. This has got Central Banks, especially the Bank of England and the People’s Bank of China to consider issuing the national currencies in a digital form over blockchain.
For starters, the inherent property of immutability and transparency associated with Bitcoin blockchain makes it easier for the central banks to trace the money that’s in circulation.
The use of blockchain based digital fiat currency will reduce the amount of bank notes and coins that are in circulation. This will, in turn, reduce the operating costs associated with printing and distribution of currency notes by the central bank.
The wide spread implementation of blockchain based fiat currency will also help the central banks and governments fight money laundering while eliminating the issue of counterfeiting.
It will also drastically reduce the transmission costs and time associated with cross-border transfers, by enabling instant transfers between branches both within and outside the country.
In one of the media reports, The Governor of Federal Reserve in-charge of overseeing new technologies, Lael Brainard was quoted saying,
“We are paying close attention to distributed ledger technology or blockchain, recognizing this may represent the most significant development in many years in payments, clearing and settlement.” She continued, “innovation using these technologies could be extremely helpful and bring benefits to society.”
Incidentally, US Federal Reserve is not the only one. The R3 international blockchain consortium already has major names from the private banking and financial sector working together on creating blockchain applications. Similar consortiums have been set up in Russia and China with the blessings of their respective central banks.
In the coming days, the gradual shift from legacy systems based banking operations to blockchain based operations will become visible.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.