BitPay to launch new bitcoin wallet using Intel's chip-level security - SiliconANGLE
BitPay to launch new bitcoin wallet using Intel’s chip-level security
Bitcoin payments startup BitPay Inc. has announced a new secure bitcoin wallet that uses Intel Corp.’s security extension hardware to safeguard security.
An updated version of BitPay’s original bitcoin wallet called Copay, the new release integrates with Intel’s Software Guard Extensions which are built into Intel’s seventh-generation Core processors as standard and offers hardware-level protection for the wallet’s private key generation, transaction signing and private keys themselves.
“The Intel processing chip is isolated from the rest of the machine in a secure execution environment, so neither compromised software nor a compromised PC can expose a Bitcoin user’s funds or private keys to risk from attackers,” BitPay Marketing and Communications Manager James Walpole told VentureBeat. “The Intel integration is sort of like a safe zone where the things that could be dangerous on a compromised machine become safe to execute.”
SGX is an Intel technology for applications that protects select code and data from disclosure or modification through the use of enclaves, which are protected areas of execution. Application code can be put into an enclave by special instructions and software made available to developers, as BitPay has used in this case.
“The decentralized trust which blockchain technology enables has the potential to transform interactions over the Internet, starting with bitcoin. With blockchain technology and our security and computing assets, Intel hopes to bring decentralized trust to a wide array of asset exchanges over the Internet,” Intel Vice President of Software and Services Rick Echevarria said in a statement.
BitPay offers its CoPay wallet as an open source project, meaning that this latest upgrade will not just benefit BitPay customers, but other firms that use the code base as well.
While it would be fair to say that no security method is infallible, Intel’s SGX offers a far high level of security than competing bitcoin wallets, making it, at least for the time being, the wallet to beat in terms of user safety in an age where attacks, particularly targeted at bitcoin wallets, continue to rise.
BitPay did not say when it would release the new version of the wallet, only that it expects to announce general availability of the new integration soon.
Japan plans to build the fastest deep learning supercomputer
Stripe’s valuation reaches $9B thanks to new $150M funding round
Are you ready for new data recovery regulations?
Huawei is now the world's most profitable Android smartphone brand
Systran Group launches neural machine translation tool for enterprises
Snowflake Computing declares cloud storage price war on Amazon
IRS attempts to obtain a copy of every U.S. Coinbase bitcoin customer
Can cross-pollinating data and security block the new cyber-hacking threat? | #theCUBE
Data confluence: handling the scale of distributed computing | #CDSUSA
Too big to fail: How a popular online community monetized its platform | #Amplify
Crowd-sourcing online talent to win a million-dollar competition | #CDSUSA
Helping software help us: How one startup is making the most of APIs | #Amplify
Data science: What does it mean and how is it best applied? | #CDSUSA
For Apple deals, you're better off at other retailers
Expercom Offering MacBook Pro With Touch Bar For Up to $225 Off With AppleCare
Save big with the best smartphone deals on Black Friday
HPE Discover 2016: November 29th – December 6th (London, UK)
AWS re:Invent: November 28th – December 2nd, 2016 (Las Vegas, NV)
5th Annual CloudNOW Top Women in Cloud Awards: December 7th (Mountain View, CA)
Spark Summit East 2017: February 7-9 (Boston, MA)
BigData SV 2017: March 13-16 (San Jose, Ca)
Dataworks Summit EU 2017: April 2-4 (Munich, Germany)
Spark Summit 2017: June 6-8 (San Francsico, CA)
Dataworks Summit US 2017: June 13-15 (San Francisco, CA)
Are you ready for new data recovery regulations?