Play the simplest and most profitable Casino Games in Bitcoin Games - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Play the simplest and most profitable Casino Games in Bitcoin Games
Bitcoin Games is part of Bitcoin.com multiplatform. It is a casino offering the simplest and most profitable traditional games in the Bitcoin gambling industry.
Bitcoin Games is part of Bitcoin.com multiplatform. It is a casino offering the simplest and most profitable traditional games in the Bitcoin gambling industry.
In Bitcoin Games, you can play with confidence! It is guaranteed that every game you play at Bitcoin Games is completely fair. Instead of just taking the company’s word for it, Bitcoin Games makes available all of the information you need to verify that they offer a fair game.
The reason that the company can guarantee this is that your web browser supplies a random number that we must incorporate into the random number generator in a provably consistent way. Since Bitcoin Games servers do not know what random number your computer will send, the company has no way of knowing how the shuffle will look in the end. So, that’s one thing that the company cannot effectively control, giving it a trusted environment where players can feel comfortable.
To manually verify a game that has been played, all players need to do is tap the green verify button in the MY GAMES table after a game has been played.
Now Bitcoin Games has increased the platform security by supporting Two-Factor authentication (2FA). The largest house edge in all of our games is only 0.5% (half of a percent). This is better than any casino in Vegas by far.
The current house edge for all games is:
Recently, an anonymous player just hit a 16.57 BTC jackpot in Bitcoin Games. Bitcoin Games is where you can find the simplest and most profitable casino games in the Bitcoin gambling industry. Sign up for Bitcoin games right now and it even might be who wins the next big Jackpot.
The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of the author, Forex Minute or any of its team members. Forex Minute is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories such as this one.
  Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
Nuno Menezes is a Portuguese Bitcoin Entrepreneur and a crypto currency’s enthusiast supporting the Bitcoin Portuguese Community. He is an Anthropologist and a Writer and his current field of work is virtual currencies. Complementing his Social Sciences Master degree with a Professional background in telecommunications along some experience in Computer Science, he intends to bring knowledge and understanding about the impact of crypto currencies in society. View all posts by Nuno Menezes
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.