NetBet Becomes First UK Online Casino to Embrace Bitcoin
News Events & Reports Lifestyle Destinations Games Online Casinos Blackjack Roulette Slots Video Poker Casino Bonus
NetBet Becomes First UK Online Casino to Embrace Bitcoin
Press CTRL + D to add to bookmarks
NetBet is about to become the first UK online gambling operator to include cryptocurrency Bitcoin in its list of payment methods. The UK-based gambling operator’s decision was backed by global Bitcoin payment services provider Bitpay.
As the operator is a licensee of the UK Gambling Commission, its partnership with Bitpay will enable UK players to use the cryptocurrency as their chosen method of processing deposits and withdrawals to and from their NetBet accounts.
NetBet first obtained its license in 2001 and has been providing a secure gaming environment for players, giving them the opportunity to enjoy a wide range of games, developed by software providers the likes of NetEnt and Microgaming. A sports betting platform and a live dealer casino are also on offer.
Bitpay, which is arguably one of the largest payment providers to process Bitcoins, reveals NetBet’s decision to embrace the cryptocurrency is prompted by the operator’s desire to expand its player base in the United Kingdom. Players, domiciled in restricted countries like the United States will not benefit from NetBet and Bitpay’s partnership.
As of today, Bitcoin exchanges one unit of its cryptocurrency at rates fluctuating between £523 and £525. By adding the currency to its list of payment options, NetBet will enable registered players to fund their casino accounts in a matter of seconds. Additionally, using the cryptocurrency minimizes the risks of fraudulent activities and allows players to preserve their anonymity as only an email address is required to process a Bitcoin payment.
As Bitcoin was introduced only recently to the regulated gambling markets in Europe, Bitpay announced it has worked closely with NetBet to ascertain adding the cryptocurrency as a payment option will not violate the requirements of the UK Gambling Commission (UKGC).
The UKGC, first referenced digital currencies, like the said Bitcoin, when it updated its License Conditions and Codes of Practice (LCCP). The regulatory body prompted its licensees to enforce “appropriate policies and procedures concerning the usage of cash and cash equivalents.” The idea is to bring the risks of money laundering and fraudulent activities to a minimum.
The regulatory body later attempted to discard the suggestion that its recent acceptance of Bitcoin is something new by stating its primary goal was to ensure licensees fully understand the importance of enforcing adequate anti-laundering and social responsibility obligations, regardless of the type of payment solution they offered to their players.
Good News for the UK-based Poker Players. The Gambling Commission Refines RTS 14
The UKGC Receives 161 Applications from Whitelisted Gambling Operators
Mansion and Titanbet On the Hurry to License Under New UK Legislation
‘Virtual Reality Gaming Will Take Off within Five Years’ with Stephanie Wynters from 138.com
Press CTRL + D to add to bookmarks
Terry Davis holds a degree in Psychology, but it was after his graduation that he found his real passion – writing. Previously, he worked for a local news magazine.
CasinoNewsDaily is a media focused on providing daily news from the casino industry as well as in-depth gaming guides. Our guides cover roulette, blackjack, slots and video poker.
Michael Pearson Wins 2016/17 WSOP Circuit Harvey's Lake Tahoe $1,675 Main Event
Michael Pearson earned his first WSOP gold ring as he emerged winner at Event #10 of the WSOP Circuit Harvey's ... Read More
Denmark is among the European countries which recently enforced a new set of law... read more
In the last couple of years humanity has reached a turning point in its advancem... read more
Most online gambling enthusiasts are very well familiar with the name NetEnterta... read more
It might appear strange but in many cases it turns out mathematics and casino ga... read more
Blackjack is one of the most frequently-played casino banking games in the world... read more
Today’s technologies provide multiple entertainment options as one can sur... read more
The Canadian based company Neteller was founded in 1999 and since then has evolv... read more
Gambling online presents itself as a rather convenient option compared to physic... read more
Licensed by the UK Gambling Commission, NetEnt (short for NetEntertainment) is o... read more
The popularity of web-based casinos continues to increase since they pose as a r... read more
Ladbrokes Coral May Suffer the Most from FOBTs Clampdown
Tribal Casino to Open Doors in Texas Early in 2016
PokerStars Casino Summons Players with First TV Ad Campaign
Atlantic city is one of the biggest cities in the
Gambling is passion and excitement. Many people love
ABOUT US AUTHORS PRIVACY CONTACT US JOBS TERMS AND CONDITIONS RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING
Founded in 2014, CasinoNewsDaily aims at covering the latest news from the casino industry world. We are focused on providing our readers with accurate news, reviews and in-depth guides.
CasinoNewsDaily.com will not be held liable for the loss of money or any damage caused by relying on the information on this site. Playing real money casino games carries high level of financial risk and may cause you financial problems. Before you decide to play with real money you should carefully consider your budget, the legislation in your country and your level of experience. If you have gambling addiction problems we recommend you to visit www.gamcare.org.uk or www.gambleaware.co.uk and ask for help.
CasinowNewsDaily.com uses cookies to know you better and to provide you with the best experience possible. By visiting our website through your browser set to allow cookies, you consent to our use of cookies as described in our Privacy Policy.
Address: Curtain House, 134-146 Curtain Road, London, EC2A 3AR; Phone number: +4420 3745 5197
Copyright © 2016 — Casino News Daily. All Rights Reserved