Bitcoin Prices Roar Past $700 But Zcash Steals The Show - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitcoin Prices Roar Past $700 But Zcash Steals The Show
Charles Bovaird | Published on October 29, 2016 at 16:07 GMT
Bitcoin may be nearing annual highs, but newcomer Zcash stole the show this week, generating robust momentum even before its launch.
The digital currency, whose use of zero-knowledge proofs is said to offer cryptocurrency users new levels of privacy, released its blockchain and first tokens (zerocoins) on 28th October.
In anticipation of the launch, nascent Zcash futures markets saw robust trading. The pairs, which traded against bitcoin prior to the release of zerocoins, rose from a low of 0.027 BTC ($18.50) on 15th September to 0.78 BTC ($535) on 28th October. Yet, this figure surged nearly 1,200% to 10 BTC ($6,864) on the day of their launch.
This wasn't the end of its story, however. With a unique release schedule, speculation hit highs often unseen even in the volatile cryptocurrency sector.
Zcash rose to far more impressive heights on digital currency exchange Poloniex, with the price of 1 ZEC reaching roughly 3,300 BTC (or more than $2m), on 28th October. This sharp increase gave way to equally jolting losses, as Zcash was trading at 48 BTC later in the day.
Tim Enneking, chairman of Crypto Currency Fund, described the price movements as "crazy".
"There's no way this valuation’s gonna hold," he said in reference to the lofty prices reached by Zcash futures.
"This is scarcity driving the train, that’s it."
In spite of all the momentum surrounding Zcash, some market observers emphasized that more than one currency has enjoyed surging value before fading from relevance.
"Like all other cryptos, Zcash will need to prove useful to a large enough market for a long enough period of time to avoid death or irrelevance," said Petar Zivkovkski, director of operations for leveraged bitcoin trading platform Whaleclub.
Digital currency hedge fund manager Jacob Eliosoff took a different tack, asserting that Zcash may be slightly overhyped.
In particular, he cited other blockchain communities that have focused on privacy solutions and that are already in use in the market.
"Zcash looks like it may offer slightly more thorough anonymity than Monero, but not a major difference from a user or business perspective,” he told CoinDesk.
Eliosoff emphasized that users don’t need the latest cryptocurrency so much as they need digital currencies that protect their identities and work effectively.
While Zcash grabbed the lion’s share of attention this week, bitcoin enjoyed a 9% gain as market dynamics and concerns about China’s continued devaluation of the yuan pushed prices higher.
Bitcoin prices surged from $628.62 at 12:00 UTC on 21st October to $686.52 by 12:00 UTC on 28th October, CoinDesk USD Bitcoin Price Index figures reveal.
At press time, bitcoin had jumped even further, rising almost 4% to a high of $713.
The digital currency's upward price movement triggered many short squeezes "across leveraged trading platforms," said Zivkovkski, though others suggested the renewed momentum may amount to more of a comeback after weeks of sideways trading.
Whaleclub data indicates that during the week through 12:00 UTC, the market was more than 90% long on all but one day.
The cryptocurrency might enjoy further gains as traders shift their focus away from altcoins, said Eliosoff. He emphasized that bitcoin has both recovered from the Bitfinex hack and approached $700.
Now, "investors have begun to take profit on various altcoins and focus on the king crypto."
Both ethereum (ETH) and its alternative blockchain ethereum classic (ETC) suffered weekly losses as the two currencies seem clouded by uncertainty.
The former dropped 6% week-over-week amid sustained denial-of-service attacks, and the latter dropped 4.6% as the ethereum classic blockchain executed a hard fork to stop the same issues.
"The hard fork as well as turmoil and DDoS attacks on the ethereum network have impacted prices negatively," said Zivkovski. "ETH and ETC are going through an identity crisis: of what use will they be in a future powered by digital currencies?"
Enneking also weighed in on the future relevance of the two currencies, though he stated that the price declines were an obvious side effect of the more immediate technical issues.
"When ethereum is being attacked repeatedly, that doesn’t look good in the eyes of consumers," he quipped.
Bitcoin's Block Size Debate is Back (And It Might Be Worse...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 19, 2016 at 15:25 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Breaches $750 But Struggles to Set New 2016 High
Bitcoin prices repeatedly breached $750 during the week through 18th November as traders responded to macroeconomic uncertainty.
Nov 18, 2016 at 13:25 | Pete Rizzo
Bitcoin Price Passes $750 as it Nears Five-Month High
The price of bitcoin is now trading above $750, its highest total in nearly five months.
Nov 16, 2016 at 13:30 | Pete Rizzo
The Price of Bitcoin Just Jumped $30 in One Hour
The price of bitcoin rose nearly $30 over the course of one hour today, rising to a high of $740 as the price continued to flirt with annual highs.
Nov 14, 2016 at 13:38 | Michael del Castillo
As bitcoin core developer Peter Todd published his role in helping create the Zcash cryptocurrency doubt is cast on the system's "trustless setup."
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact