Bitcoin Price Watch; Prepare For Choppy Action! - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Ok, so here’s the plan for this evening. The bitcoin price has been pretty steady all day, albeit with a slight downside trend, so we’re going to approach this evening’s market with a little bit of caution. Not because we think we’ll see too much action, but because in the face of the recent volume spikes that came about last week, we may be in for some choppy price movement.
We don’t really need to alter our strategy or anything like that, just make sure that we’ve got some well defined risk management levels in place to keep our downside (or upside, depending on the trade direction) risk under control, and to take us out of a trade in the event that price reverses against our position.
So, with this in mind, let’s get our key levels defined.
The chart below, as usual, is a five-minute candlestick chart. As a quick aesthetic note, we’ve stuck with the black background and the green/white notation. Readers probably don’t care about this to much, but when you stare at these charts for as long as we do, it’s nice to mix things up a little.
Anyway, that said, take a look at the chart and get an idea of where we are looking from a key level perspective.
As the chart shows, we are looking at a range defined by in term support to the downside at 700 flat, and in term resistance to the upside at 706. These levels are pretty well defined, and with the potential for choppy action this evening, we’re going to stick to our guns with a breakout only strategy.
If price breaks resistance, we’ll get in long towards an immediate upside target of 710 flat, with a stop at 704 to define our risk. Conversely, if price breaks support, we’ll be in towards 694. A stop on this one at 702 looks good.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.