South Korea to introduce bitcoin regulations in Q1 2017 - EconoTimes
FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
BTC/SGD faces strong support at 23.6% fibo, good to buy on dips
BTC/GBP takes support at 21-DMA, break below targets 550
FxWirePro: ETH/EUR faces strong support 8 level, good to sell on rallies
South Korea to introduce bitcoin regulations in Q1 2017
South Korea’s financial regulator has revealed plans to introduce regulatory guidelines for digital currency exchanges operating in the country by the first quarter of 2017.
Korea Joongang Daily reported that for this purpose, a task force has been launched by the Financial Services Commission. The task force will hold regular meetings to discuss the regulatory status of digital currency, prepare licensing rules for exchanges, and formulate measures to prevent money laundering and fraud in transactions.
"The government will push for the systematization of digital currency on a full scale in tandem with a global trend in the U.S., Japan and other countries," Yim Jong-yong, chairman of the Financial Services Commission, said in a speech at the 12th Fintech Center Demo Day event (quoted by The Korea Herald).
The Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning currently oversees the registration of bitcoin operators in the country, but offers no financial regulatory framework. In the first meeting, the task force agreed that the sector needs to be regulated, with the commission suggesting that new rules might include strong regulations to prevent illegal use of digital currency exchanges.
“There’s still no legal definition for ‘digital currency.’ We plan to start work by coming up with a legal definition so that we can respond to issues involving tax payment, money laundering, and consumer protection,” an FSC source said, as quoted by the hankyoreh. “We may be presenting the legal definition and specific plans in the fintech development roadmap by the first quarter of next year”.
In addition, the Korean government is also planning to establish a blockchain consortium combining fintech companies and financial institutions, the hankyoreh reported.
In order to foster fintech ecosystem, the government will offer 3 trillion won ($2.65 billion) in financial support over the next three years, Yim said. According to the FSC, these measures make up the “basic direction” of the second-stage fintech development roadmap, which would be unveiled in Q1 2017.
“Where the first-stage fintech development roadmap was focused on removing irrational regulations, the second stage will be focused on redesigning current systems to make them more suited to the fintech environment,” Yim added.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
Bitfinex spokesman resigns due to ‘insane conspiracy theories’ - EconoTimes
New Finger Camera Tech Helps Blind People Read Printed Words
Princess Leia Memory Wave Helps The Brain Better Store Memory
Terrorism And AI Mix Seems Inevitable, Spells Disaster
Biological vs chronological age: how old are you really?
Watch: Virtual Reality Training For Police To Help Reduce Shootings
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
Why batteries have started catching fire so often
AI Should Get Credit For Its Inventions Law Expert Says
Elon Musk: Advanced Artificial Intelligence Could Destroy The Internet
DIY networking: the path to a more democratic internet
Samsung Banking On Foldable Phone Revolution, Patent Published
Market-moving news and views, 24 hours a day >
505m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
505m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
506m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
506m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
506m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Tech City UK to deliver HM Treasury's fintech measures
UK Q3 GDP shows high resilience post-Brexit, Q4 could see positive surprise
What can obesity control learn from tobacco control's success?
US Election Series: Jill Stein raises $4.5 million to challenge election outcome
FxWirePro: GBP/USD faces strong resistance at 1.2530, good to sell on rallies
Study Says Practice Tests Help Maintain Memory Condition During Exams
FxWirePro:USD/CHF forms Bearish Bat pattern, good to sell on rallies
Indian economy to expand below 7 pct this year, further upside in USD/INR likely
GBP/USD likely to be vulnerable to significant bouts of volatility over coming year, says Lloyds Bank
How much impact can OPEC deal have on oil prices?
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says...
Bitfinex spokesman resigns due to ‘insane conspiracy theories’ - Econo...
Vdice is neither provably fair or decentralised.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1646783.ms...more
When Blockchain and Decentralization Disrupt Gambling - EconoTimes
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
BTC/EUR faces strong resistance around 715, break above targets 740 - ...
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
Deutsche Bank turmoil shows risks of weakening bank capital standards -...
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close...
Thank you very much for these daily articles on the USD/ZAR pair!
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
December US Fed Interest Rate Hike – First of Many? - EconoTimes
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
MAS and R3 partner to carry out blockchain-based inter-bank payments -...
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
The huge political cost of Blair's decision to allow Eastern European migrants...
You do know his character's name is Steve, don't you? ;)
‘Hawaii Five-O’ Season 7, Episode 9 Spoilers: "Two Days in November" –...
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
India likely to witness a weak Q4 on adverse demonetization effects, says...
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR remains well supported below 14.50 mark, sustained close...
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
How can we prevent type 2 diabetes in children? - EconoTimes
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR hits fresh 2-month high at 14.56, faces strong resistance...
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
Bitcoin and blockchain investment activity drops in Q3 2016 - EconoTim...
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
MHI/YouGov Survey Finds Americans’ Joys, Anxieties About Thanksgiving Are...