Unocoin has released APIs for bitcoin wallets and merchants transactions
#NAMA Event: Impact of Internet Shutdowns, 6th Dec, Delhi. APPLY HERE
No more currency exchange except at RBI counters; More updates
Live blog 2: the latest and the best demonetization updates
MobiKwik can now be used to pay road tolls at 391 booths
UPI has largely missed capitalizing on the demonetisation “perfect storm” – Avinash Raghava
Require Hardware Engineer For Capital Hill Cashgate Scandal
Require Software Testing Documentation For Capital Hill Cashgate Scandal
Pemex Global- Senior Designer – UI & UX – Photoshop/Illustrator
VISUALSAN: Implementation cannot be better... Money was not printed until the...
RAHUL SAINI: Amazing Post guys! Check out Top 10 Best Smartphones under...
REMYA: CHECK OUT THIS VIDEO. GIVES CLEAR PICTURE OF DEMONETIZATION. h...
MANISHA VERMA: Congratulations to all LoveVivah team members! The team has done...
SALU MALU: Theoretically everybody will admit the necessity of snuffing out black...
SALU MALU: Theoretically everybody will admit the necessity of snuffing out black...
Demonetization to lower PC, mobile, tablet sales in Q4 2016: IDC
No more currency exchange except at RBI counters; More updates
Indian Govt blocked 1377 pages, 1670 social media URLs from 2013-16
Live blog 2: the latest and the best demonetization updates
FIPB approvals for OUP & Bloomberg Quint; Netmagic & Flag deferred
MobiKwik can now be used to pay road tolls at 391 booths
UPI has largely missed capitalizing on the demonetisation “perfect storm” – Avinash Raghava
Google India vs Visaka Industries: Intermediary liability again
BSNL rolls out Aadhaar eKYC verification for SIM cards: Report
Paytm has more offline merchant transactions than online: CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Initially only utility bills can be paid through the BBPS; pilot in mid June, says AP Hota, MD and CEO of NPCI
Wallets aren't on UPI because banks needed time to catch up - NPCI MD & CEO AP Hota
TinyOwl's Harshvardhan Mandad on its plans to roll out deliveries with Roadrunnr
1mg Founder Prashant Tandon on how the online pharmacy business works
Income Tax Department Wants To Tax Bitcoin Miners In India
Indians allegedly have crores worth Bitcoin locked up in MtGox; we doubt it
Intuit now lets businesses accept payments in Bitcoin
Gaurav Burman Invests in Bitcoin Exchange itBit; Plans To Bring It To India
US to treat Bitcoin as a commodity and tax it accordingly; Should India follow suit?
Coinbase launches bitcoin debit card in the US
Unocoin releases APIs for bitcoin wallets and merchants transactions
By Shashidhar KJ ( @KJshashi ) on November 7, 2016
Bitcoin startup Unocoin has released an application programming interface (API) which will allow individuals and companies to generate bitcoin wallets and buy, sell, send and receive bitcoins and allow merchants to accept and request payments through bitcoins.
They will also allow give real-time or historical price information of bitcoins and get notifications when payments arrive. The company mentioned that its API is being used by Paycase, a Canadian remittance application which allows for money transfer from Canada to India.
Paycase has tested transactions in nearly 20 countries to route payments over a variety of cryptocurrencies networks. “During a 6-month beta, Paycase successfully completed $50,000 worth of micro-transactions from Canada to the Philippines, with costs averaging 60-80% lower than traditional remittance players,” Unocoin added.  For India, Unocoin and Paycase have worked together to establish technical, regulatory and business logic needed to convert Canadian Dollar to Indian Rupee transfers.
Unocoin’s recently released features includes a merchant point-of-sale (POS) app, a mobile trading app, an auto-selling feature for remittance users, systematic investment planning (SIP) to mitigate against volatility risk, integration with NETKI to simplify Bitcoin addresses, an over the counter (OTC) desk for large traders, and integration with Purse.io for discounts on Amazon.
Note that the Reserve Bank of India  is yet to make up its mind about the digital currency. The RBI issued a warning that it will not regulate any Virtual Currency including Bitcoin in India and warned people who were dealing with the currency in India of the risks involved, saying that they’re exposing them to financial, legal, operational and security related risk.
MediaNama’s Salman SH recently tried to to create a bitcoin wallet on but ran into trouble with verification. Unocoin asks users to enter email id and password and then sends a link to register an account. Once the registration is complete, the user’s account will have an unverified  status. The company then asks for the user’s name (as mentioned in the PAN card), PAN number, phone number and address. Scanned copies of PAN card and a valid address proof with a photograph must be uploaded.
This will move the account status to “Verification Pending”. Users will receive a phone call verification from Unocoin’s team, and will be verified. Following this, verified users will be able to add bank account details be able to buy and sell 10 bitcoins per day with no limits on sending and receiving bitcoins. Continued buy/sell transactions over a period of 60 days will upgrade the account to the “Gold Member” service which has lower transaction fees and higher buy/sell limits.
Despite uploading the documents, Salman’s verification was rejected with the following email.
A few days later, he got a call from the verification team asking him to upload scans of both sides of driver’s licence. He added the document scans but his account status still remains unregistered.
Unocoin raised $1.5 million from Blume Ventures, Mumbai Angels and ah! Ventures along with international investors such as Digital Currency Group, Boost VC, Bnk to the Future and FundersClub in September. It also secured $250,000 in funding from Barry Silbert’s Bitcoin Opportunity Corp back in 2014.
Income Tax Department Wants To Tax Bitcoin Miners In India
Indians allegedly have crores worth Bitcoin locked up in MtGox; we doubt it
Intuit now lets businesses accept payments in Bitcoin
Gaurav Burman Invests in Bitcoin Exchange itBit; Plans To Bring It To India
US to treat Bitcoin as a commodity and tax it accordingly; Should India follow suit?
Coinbase launches bitcoin debit card in the US
Ola wants regulation of predatory pricing in Maharashtra
Logistics provider Rivigo secures $75M from Warburg Pincus