Bitcoin Price Watch; Here's What's On Tonight! - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this evening.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
The end of the European session is here, and it’s time to take a look at action in the bitcoin price today with a view to setting up a strategy for this evening. We got a bit of volatility earlier today, and managed to get in on a downside break for a quick scalp profit. Whether we will get a repeat of this volatility moving forward remains to be seen – there’s not been too much to speak of across the last few hours, and volume has been pretty weak. This may change as the US session heats up pre-close, and as the Asian session kicks off early morning.
The chart below is a five-minute candlestick of the day’s action, and it’s got around twelve hours of price displayed. Before we get going, get a look at it, so as to get an idea of our range in focus.
So, as the chart shows, the range in focus for this evening’s session is defined by in term support to the downside at 611, and in term resistance to the upside at 618. As we said this morning, there’s just about enough room to go at action this evening with an intrarange strategy. Long at support, short at resistance. Place a stop just on the other side of the entry to make sure a trade closes out if price reverses and trades against the position bias.
If price breaks our key levels, we will look to get in to a scalp entry in the direction of the break.
Specifically, if price breaks through resistance we will get in long towards 625, and if price breaks through support, we are going to get in short towards 605. A stop loss just the other side of the entry, once again, helps to ensure a positive risk profile.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.