Mastercard President Doesn’t Care for Bitcoin; Only Blockchain - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Mastercard President Doesn’t Care for Bitcoin; Only Blockchain
Mastercard president Rob Reeg admits he doesn’t particularly care for bitcoin, but thinks the blockchain holds promise.
In a recent interview with the Business Standard, Reeg opened up about some of Mastercard’s ongoing projects surrounding blockchain technology, and how they plan to implement further security for card holders. Presently, the credit conglomerate is working on two separate blockchain pilot projects; one combines aspect of both public and private ledgers, while the other is strictly private. Regarding the blockchain, Reeg went on to state:
“It is an interesting technology and we are working on it. I personally don’t care about Bitcoin, but I do care about blockchain technology… For [a] company like us, while managing people’s money and information, [the] security aspect of blockchain is [a] little bit daunting. The idea behind blockchain is unregulated power, but that is never going to be a first choice when the security is [of] concern.”
It’s no secret that Mastercard has never been a fan of digital currency. Expressing doubt over bitcoin’s long-term viability, several executives have been relatively outspoken regarding their stance on bitcoin’s alleged lack of safety. At the same time, the blockchain has consistently been on good terms with those at Mastercard. Just four months ago, the company’s international president Ann Cairs labeled the blockchain a “good thing for the future,” and further explained:
“If you are a European supplier and you are buying silk from China, silk has to be shipped, and you also have letters of credit, and many people are involved in the transaction until the silk arrives to my store. I can see the blockchain could be used in this space because anywhere you got logistic companies, finance companies, suppliers, buyers, all touching the same transaction, that is where having one version of the truth will be very useful.”
Mastercard also selected blockchain startup Everledger to join its summer incubator last June.
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.