Bitcoin and Ethereum Are Not Tipping Their Hands Yet - CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin and Ethereum Are Not Tipping Their Hands Yet
s these words are being typed, it seems Bitcoin wants to rally and ethereum is looking weak.  This proves the wisdom of waiting for confirmation before executing a trade.  Readers of yesterday’s column will recall that I ended by saying I was prepared to buy ethereum and/or ethxbt, but suggested I would wait for confirmation.  As of now that confirmation has still not come.
In fact, there are few concrete signals (that I can see) to indicate which way these currencies are going to break, so I for one will wait on the sidelines until a trend asserts itself.
What might constitute a CLEAR AND UNAMBIGUOUS SIGNAL? In bitcoin’s case a close above 750 would be strong evidence that the next leg of a rally was underway.  But for those not willing to wait that long, a close above the 1×1 (blue line highlighted by blue arrow) in this 2-hour chart would be an indication that a sustainable rally might be in the works.
Will we get that close? I have no way to know for sure.  The only thing I know for sure is that this chart’s trading since the low is very choppy and looks far more like a corrective wave to me, than an impulse wave.  So I am not yet willing to buy it.
  Meanwhile, ethereum’s daily chart has not changed appreciably since last night’s article.  Price is still trapped under the weight of the 1×1 angle from the high (45 degrees) and the 2nd arc of the 4th arc pair.  I continue to suspect that it will be a bullish time when price breaks through those resistances, but I don’t know if that will happen today or next week.  So I will watch and wait on this one also.
Remember:  The author is a trader who is subject to all manner of error in judgement.  Do your own research, and be prepared to take full responsibility for your own trades.
Posted in: Altcoin News, Bitcoin Analysis, Bitcoin Price News, News Tagged in: Ethereum price
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
NextHow Blockchain Technology Will Disrupt Elections And Empower Individuals08/11/2016
PreviousBitcoin Returns to its Roots on Day #2 of Blockchain Money Conference08/11/2016
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.