MGT Capital (MGTI), Bitmain Technologies Enter LOI to Form Bitcoin Joint Venture
MGT Capital (MGTI), Bitmain Technologies Enter LOI to Form Bitcoin Joint Venture
Wall Street finishes at record highs consumer staples, techs gain
Actelion Confirms Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) Takeover Approach
'Black Friday' Turning Into 'Couch Friday' - Cowen (WMT) (PINK) (AEO) (TGT) (more...)
Target (TGT) Reports Strong Start to Black Friday in Stores and Record Online Sales
Dollar weakens as U.S. bond yields slip from recent highs
Get inside Wall Street with StreetInsider Premium. Claim your 2-week free trial here.
MGT Capital Investments, Inc. (OTC: MGTI) is pleased to announce that it has signed a Letter of Intent with Bitmain Technologies Limited to form a joint venture that will focus on opportunities in the Bitcoin space in North America. Bitmain, headquartered in Beijing, is the preeminent worldwide leader in bitcoin hardware manufacturing and sales. In addition, Bitmain maintains one of the largest bitcoin mining pools through its Antpool Brand, as well as one of the largest cloud mining operations, offered by its Hashnest subsidiary.
The proposed joint venture between MGT and Bitmain will lead to the development of a state of the art Bitcoin mining pool. There will be many exciting features to the McAfee pool that will include advanced user interface as well as superior network protection and security maintained by MGT's proprietary cybersecurity technologies. In addition, the companies plan to form a partnership to offer both institutional and individuals access to affordably priced mining hash from U.S. based facilities maintained by MGT. The Company anticipates that it will make announcements in the near future regarding the brand identity and economics of the cloud hashing ventures.
"Our partnership with an iconic name such as Bitmain Technologies is a major milestone for MGT as it executes it plan to become the major player in bitcoin throughout the western hemisphere," John McAfee, Executive Chairman of MGT, commented. "This Partnership will go a long way towards making MGT a leader in the fastest growing segment of financial and industrial cybersecurity."
Serious News for Serious Traders! Try StreetInsider.com Premium Free!
Euroseas Ltd. (ESEA) Acquires Drybulk Vessel, Enters $2M Short-Term Loan Facility
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) Announces Solanezumab Phase 3 in Alzheimer's Disease Missed Primary Endpoint
Hongli Clean Energy Technologies (CETC) Request for Continued Listing Granted by Nasdaq
This Game Will Keep You Up All Night!
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple Solution
This game will keep you up all night!
Finally You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
The Only 2 Sites You Need to Know About When Building a Website
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 million players.
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
This Strategy Game Will Keep You Up All Night!
The 15 Most Expensive Homes In The World
This game will keep you up all night! (Pirates: Free Online Game)
Gamers around the world have been waiting for this game! Already 35 milli… (Grepolis - Online Free Game)
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple Solution (My Snoring Solution)
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone (Smart Device Trends)
The Only 2 Sites You Need to Know About When Building a Website (Top 10 Best Website Builders)
Windstream (WIN), EarthLink (ELNK) Enter $1.1B Merger Agreement
Form 3 Viacom Inc. For: Nov 15 Filed by: Bakish Robert M
Form 6-K COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO For: Sep 30
WPG Glass Repair, the Sliding Glass Door Repair Experts in West Palm Beach, Announces Budget-…
As speculation continues on where the Dow will end the year; we take a look back at some of the historic Dow performances over the past 50 years.
Corporate News, Hot Corp. News, Management Comments, Momentum Movers
Receive full access to all new and archived articles, unlimited portfolio tracking, e-mail alerts, custom newswires and RSS feeds - and more!