Lower Merion scam claims you cheated on your spouse, asks for Bitcoin blackmail | PhillyVoice
Lower Merion scam claims you cheated on your spouse, asks for Bitcoin blackmail
ODD NEWS SCAMS LOWER MERION CHEATING MONTGOMERY COUNTY PHILADELPHIA
Some blackmail artists in Lower Merion Township who apparently spent too much time watching daytime television claim to know of your infidelities.
Police said Thursday that many residents have received letters claiming scammers know you're cheating on your spouse and have evidence that they'll show to your wife and family (and presumably have Joey Greco ambush you). They are demanding $2,000.
"Ignoring this letter will result in your wife and the people closest to her finding about your adultery," the letter reads.
RELATED: With risk of humiliation, hacks, etc., why do people cheat?
Lower Merion police stressed that the scam is completely bogus, writing on Facebook, "Please DO NOT give them any money. Shred the letter and throw it away."
Oh, and according to CBS3, the scammers asked for their victims to pay the blackmail in Bitcoin, because of course they wanted to be paid in Bitcoin.
The moral of the story: Even if you're cheating on your spouse, never believe a blackmailer that wants to be compensated in Bitcoin.
The Most Expensive Billionaire Homes In The World
Report: Sixers ‘ramping up’ trade discussions for No. 3 pick, with Nerlens Noel involved in the deal
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year
How Moniak, Phillies graded out in Baseball America's Draft report card
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep
Police: Man wanted for killing 3 captured in Pennsylvania
The 20 Most Generous Billionaires In The World
This Is The Most Addicting Game Of The Year (Soldiers: Free Online Game)
Say Goodbye To Snoring, Say Hello to Sleep (My Snoring Solution)
This game will keep you up all night! (Stormfall: Free Online Game)
The Only 2 Sites You Need to Know Abo… (Top 10 Best Website Builders)
The 20 Most Generous Billionaires In The World (AfriZap)
Report: Sixers ‘ramping up’ trade discussions for No. 3 pick, wit…
How Moniak, Phillies graded out in Baseball America's Draft rep…
Police: Man wanted for killing 3 captured in Pennsylvania
Barwin issues statement, says he 'has no knowledge' of alleg…
Lawsuit filed against Delco nursing home for fire that killed smoker
Parents charged after son, 2, shot by 4-year-old cousin in Philly
Stein raises money for recounts in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin
Penn State won't fight $2.4 million fine for lax crime reporting, including in Sandusky case
$20K reward offered for 2 men who escaped California jail
Students complained about erratic driving before fatal bus wreck in Tennessee
Reminder: Black Friday got its name from crazed Philly suburbanites
Analyzing the Eagles' remaining games, playoff odds, and draft position
Is Cory Booker a favorite to challenge Trump in 2020?
Five things you have to do in Marlton
Here’s what happens to your body when you quit smoking
From $27 -- 4-Star Vegas Hotel in Fall
$149 -- Savannah: 4-Star Waterfront Westin, Reg. $179
$69 & up -- Fall Deals Throughout Virginia, Save up to 50%
© 2016 WWB Holdings, LLC. All rights reserved