Bitcoin IRA Launches New IRA Calculator Tool for Investors
Bitcoin IRA Launches New IRA Calculator Tool for Investors
First-ever bitcoin-based retirement account provider launches new calculator tool for investors to compare returns.
LOS ANGELES, Oct. 13, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Bitcoin IRA, the bitcoin-based IRA provider, today announced the introduction of its new Bitcoin IRA returns calculator. The calculator allows investors to view their potential returns with bitcoin, and compare them against other assets.
Bitcoin IRA Launches New IRA Calculator Tool for Investors
The new bitcoin investment calculator is designed to help both individuals who already have an IRA or 401(k), as well as new investors looking to start saving for retirement. By comparing potential returns from bitcoin with traditional investments, they can better determine the risks and benefits associated with each option.
The calculator was developed by Bitcoin IRA, the first company to offer bitcoin-based retirement accounts. A Bitcoin IRA is similar to traditional and Roth IRAs, but allows investors to hold actual bitcoins in a secure digital wallet for their retirement.
In addition to the investment calculator, Bitcoin IRA also offers a free investment guide, which is available for download. Investors looking to start their own Bitcoin IRA can speak with a specialist by calling 1-877-936-7175 Monday through Friday, between 8:00 AM and 5:30 PST, or by emailing to info@bitcoinira.com. They can also request a call back by completing a short online form.
Bitcoin IRA is a pioneer in the use of bitcoin as an investment option for retirement, offering a unique alternative for self-directed IRAs. Working with FinTech industry leaders to provide secure, high-quality bitcoin investments, Bitcoin IRA provides an innovative approach for investors to build their 401(k) and protect their retirement savings against market turmoil. To learn more, visit BitcoinIRA.com.
For a free Bitcoin IRA Investment Guide, visit: https://bitcoinira.com/bitcoin-investorguide/btcpr/?AID=707&cID=2775
Bitcoin IRA is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to FDIC and other consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only.
This content was issued through the press release distribution service at Newswire.com. For more info visit: http://www.newswire.com
Bitcoin IRA Introduces Gold Rebate Promotion for New Clients
Bitcoin IRA's Free Bitcoin Investor Guide Clears any...
Bitcoin IRA Launches New IRA Calculator Tool for Investors
Copyright © 2016 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Cision company.