Chinese Government To Force Capital Controls On Bitcoin Exchanges
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Chinese Government To Force Capital Controls On Bitcoin Exchanges
It is likely the recent Bitcoin price surge attracted a lot of attention from the Chinese government. There has been a lot of speculation regarding Chinese investors buying Bitcoin to hedge against the declining Yuan.
China has always been the driving force behind Bitcoin, as cryptocurrency is largely unregulated in the country. That situation is coming to change, as the country is looking to impose their version of capital controls on Bitcoin. It was only a matter of time until the government started paying close attention to this trading market. However, it remains to be seen how effective these guidelines will be on a free market.
As most people are well aware of, Bitcoin is much more than just an investment vehicle. For people living in China, cryptocurrency is also a way to circumvent capital controls imposed by the PBOC. That situation would only be sustained for so long until the government decides to crack down on Bitcoin in general. By the look of things, that will be happening sooner rather than later.
Chinese sources report how officials are looking at restricting Bitcoin trading in the domestic market. To be more precise, local exchanges will deal with limitations regarding the amount of funds moving outside of the country. Additionally, the government also wants to cap the number of Bitcoins sent abroad. Neither of these scenarios can be enforced, though, as no one can exert control over Bitcoin.
That being said, regulators can pressure companies who deal with cryptocurrency. Since these are all centralized enterprises, the government can impose their will upon them. However, this will not affect the Bitcoin protocol as a whole. Moreover, Chinese traders can find other ways to buy and sell Bitcoin with relative ease.
It is likely the recent Bitcoin price surge attracted a lot of attention from the Chinese government. There has been a lot of speculation regarding Chinese investors buying Bitcoin to hedge against the declining Yuan. Although none of that has ever been confirmed or proven, the government is looking to take preemptive action. After all, they do not want too much money leaving China , which is something Bitcoin actively facilitates.
For now, it remains to be seen how these new guidelines will be enforced. Bitcoin is not a currency in China, making it very difficult to categorize under capital outflows. But if there is one thing governments are good at, it is creating new rules when they see fit. It remains unknown how this will impact Bitcoin trading as a whole, though. Times are changing, that much is certain.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.