Grant puts $1.2 million on table for bitcoin protocol development - SiliconANGLE
Grant puts $1.2 million on table for bitcoin protocol development
A group of bitcoin companies has joined together to launch the Bitcoin Development Grant, a $1.2 million grant fund for bitcoin protocol development.
The fund will be used to support teams working on bitcoin protocol development, foster greater diversity of innovation and, according to the grant page, improve freedom of choice for bitcoin users. It’s led by Bitcoin.com (Saint Bits LLC) and BitMain Technologies Ltd., with support from Xapo Ltd., ANX, BitBank, BitBays, Bitcoin Colombia, Blockchain, BTCGhana, CoinATMRadar, Mycelium, Purse, Luxstack and others.
The fund is taking an approach of being agnostic towards bitcoin forks, or departures from the standard protocol, noting that “no particular implementation of the bitcoin protocol holds claim to being the ‘official’ version of bitcoin” and that it will support a diversity of bitcoin protocol implementations.
“Bitcoin is a leaderless community comprised of many parts, and no team of developers has decision making authority for the entire community,” the grant page notes. “Disagreement is healthy within a complex community such as ours. Yet the benefits of discussion, debate, and dissent require communication channels to remain free and open.”
Those supporting the grant have taken a strong stand on open discussion and by extension censorship between differing viewpoints, noting that “by finding common ground … and by showing good faith towards all developers who wish to contribute to the development of bitcoin, we can begin to mend the deep rift that has divided and distracted our still-nascent community and industry.”
That rift refers specifically to competing claims for bitcoin reform, such as Bitcoin Core, Bitcoin Classic and others.
Developers interested in applying for a grand should send an email to apply@bitcoindevelopmentgrant.com with details of the project they would like to work on.
Japan plans to build the fastest deep learning supercomputer
Stripe’s valuation reaches $9B thanks to new $150M funding round
Are you ready for new data recovery regulations?
Huawei is now the world's most profitable Android smartphone brand
Systran Group launches neural machine translation tool for enterprises
Snowflake Computing declares cloud storage price war on Amazon
Walmart and IBM test blockchain for custom supply chain tracking
Can cross-pollinating data and security block the new cyber-hacking threat? | #theCUBE
Data confluence: handling the scale of distributed computing | #CDSUSA
Too big to fail: How a popular online community monetized its platform | #Amplify
Crowd-sourcing online talent to win a million-dollar competition | #CDSUSA
Helping software help us: How one startup is making the most of APIs | #Amplify
Data science: What does it mean and how is it best applied? | #CDSUSA
For Apple deals, you're better off at other retailers
Expercom Offering MacBook Pro With Touch Bar For Up to $225 Off With AppleCare
Save big with the best smartphone deals on Black Friday
HPE Discover 2016: November 29th – December 6th (London, UK)
AWS re:Invent: November 28th – December 2nd, 2016 (Las Vegas, NV)
5th Annual CloudNOW Top Women in Cloud Awards: December 7th (Mountain View, CA)
Spark Summit East 2017: February 7-9 (Boston, MA)
BigData SV 2017: March 13-16 (San Jose, Ca)
Dataworks Summit EU 2017: April 2-4 (Munich, Germany)
Spark Summit 2017: June 6-8 (San Francsico, CA)
Dataworks Summit US 2017: June 13-15 (San Francisco, CA)
Are you ready for new data recovery regulations?