Bitcoin, PayPal or Credit Cards - What is the best way to fund an online casino? 
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin, PayPal or Credit Cards – What is the best way to fund an online casino? 
Online casinos accept different methods of payment for making deposit when registering as well as for withdrawals.
Online casinos accept different methods of payment for making deposit when registering as well as for withdrawals. It is really up to individual user to decide which method of payments is the best for its individual needs. Keep on reading to find out some important info about few most common methods of payment in online casinos to make the best informed choice.
Credit Cards as a form of payment in online casino
Credit cards are the most often used and accepted method of payment in online casinos no matter where they are registered. 
Credit cards are accepted as a method of payment in all USA casinos. Credit cards enable you to deposit high amounts and to cash out large amounts as well. 
Credit cards are very safe for usage as a method of payment in online casinos because all banks (and online casinos) use SSL certificates and security encryption as a security method to protect your bank account. Additionally, processing of your card payment is immediate, so you can start gambling online as soon as you make an online payment.
Another reason why it is good to use a credit card for online gambling is the fact that you can dedicate just one card/account to online gambling so you will be sure that you are not over-spending, i.e. that you are spending only the exact amount you have intended for such purposes. Plus, once you join an online casino, you will get a welcome bonus – which you can verify inyour bank account and check that you have gotten exactly what has been promised during registration!
Credit cards are a recommended method of payment also for the reason that casino customer service carefully monitors payments and withdrawals, and at the hint of any suspicious activities, they will instantly freeze the user’s account.
PayPal as a form of payment in online casino
PayPal is another safe and quick method for payments and withdrawals to and from online casinos. Many people all over the world use PayPal as a method of online payment, which is another reason why it is accepted in all major online casinos. PayPal unfortunately isn’t an option for Canada, Australia and USA users, but all others can use it. 
PayPal provides additional security in comparison to credit cards because you are not directly providing your personal info and bank account info as you would with your credit card (although you can provide your bank account info directly). Additionally, you don’t need to worry about processing your request for a deposit or withdrawal made from PayPal – all major online casinos process these as quickly as those made with a credit card. The user can use a PayPal account for casino deposits or withdrawals, or can create another account that will be used strictly for online casino gambling. This will be a particularly good choice if you want to monitor your online gambling and control the amount of money you spend in an online casino. Metap gave great instructors for PayPal and bitcoin casinos which shows exactly how to compare between the different options, we really advice you to visit there.
Bitcoin as a form of payment in an online casino
Bitcoin is becoming more and more popular as a form of virtual currency that owners can use for online payments. Dozens of online casinos have started introducing Bitcoin as a method of acceptable deposit for online gambling. These online casinos offer a certain selection of games for which Bitcoin is accepted as a form of depositing, such as slots, poker and roulettes.
It is good to use Bitcoin because casinos that accept them as a method of depositing usually post edge lower than with other forms of payment, which is definitely very attractive for online gamblers. 
Another reason why Bitcoin is an interesting method of payment in online casinos is the fact that those casinos that accept Bitcoin all have mobile casino applications as well, which is significant for the majority of gamblers – because gamblers want to be able to gamble while on the go, right?
Even though Bitcoin is relatively new when it comes to being used as a method of online payment, those online casinos that have introduced it don’t present any limitations when it comes to speed and ease of registration of a user account. Online gambling after registering with a Bitcoin account as a method of payment is quick and easy, just as if you have decided to use a credit card or a PayPal account as a payment method. 
So, what is the best way to fund an online casino?
With all of the above basic info on how to fund an online casino with a credit card, PayPal account or Bitcoin, it is really up to personal preferences which one you will choose for your online gambling.
It is evident that all three methods of payment are safe and secured with the latest security certificates and encryptions. All three methods of payment are easily and swiftly accepted and registered both as a method of depositing as well as a method of withdrawal – and all requests are processed instantly.
The only reason why one would choose a credit card or PayPal account over Bitcoin is the larger selection of online casinos that accept the previous two methods of payment over the last one. Additionally, the same can be said for a credit card over PayPal for users from the USA, Canada and Australia where PayPal can’t be used
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.