Florida Man To Plead Guilty in JPMorgan, Bitcoin Hack Case
Florida Man To Plead Guilty in JPMorgan, Bitcoin Hack Case
In Manhattan District Court today Michael Murgio will admit to operating an illegal money transmitting business and paying a bribe to gain access to a credit union.
Michael Murgio from Florida will plead guilty in a Manhattan court today in the illegal bitcoin exchange case tied to the JPMorgan hacking investigation, his lawyer confirmed according to Reuters.
Murgio is the second person to plead guilty in the case under a plea agreement. He is charged with operating an illegal money transmitting business and paying a bribe to gain access to a credit union.
The Florida lawyer is charged along with his son Anthony Murgio and Yuri Lebedev, who operated Coin.mix, owned by Israeli Gery Shalon. According to the news agency, Shalon, Ziv Orenstein and Joshua Samuel Aaron ran a massive hacking operation which attacked the networks of companies like JPMorgan Chase and compromised personal data of more than 100 million people. Coin.mix was allegedly used by the hackers to exchange millions of dollars in bitcoins.
Murgio is also charged with bribing the chairman of a New Jersey credit union, pastor Trevon Gross, to use the institution as a front for Coin.mix.
Dark Reading's Quick Hits delivers a brief synopsis and summary of the significance of breaking news events. For more information from the original source of the news item, please follow the link provided in this article. View Full Bio
Spearphishing & Targeted Social Engineering Attacks On Your Users
The Top Cybersecurity Risks & How Enterprises Are Responding
The mobile threat landscape continues to evolve and the Appthority Enterprise Mobile Threat Team monitors trends and important developments in its quarterly threat updates. This quarter's update highlights a growing concern among enterprises around new breeds of mobile threats and shares insights on how changes in app store policies may be affecting the security of applications in enterprise environments.
NEWEST FIRST  |  OLDEST FIRST  |  THREADED VIEW
Is there any information on what his plea agreement entailed versus what sentence he would have received had he not plead guilty?
REPLY  |  POST MESSAGE  |  MESSAGES LIST  |  START A BOARD
Interop ITX - The Independent Conference for Tech Leaders
Get Started or Expand in Your Use of Comms APIs at EC17
Attend the Leading Unified Comms & Collaboration Event
4 Reasons You Should Build an Agile Data Mart
Write a Caption, Win a Starbucks Card! Click Here
Latest Comment: "I know the IT guy has access to our emails, but does he have to rub it in?"
Five Emerging Security Threats - And What You Can Learn From Them
At Black Hat USA, researchers unveiled some nasty vulnerabilities. Is your organization ready?
What's missing from your incident response plan? (Pick all that apply.)
  Plan for finding malicious files after the breach
The Top Cybersecurity Risks And How Enterprises Are Responding
The information security landscape is a constantly shifting risk environment. Today's IT security department must manage both internal and external threats' ranging from malware to mobile device vulnerabilities, to cloud security and ransomware. Download the Dark Reading 2016 Strategic Security Survey to gain insight into how security professionals view these risks, and how they are addressing them.
2 COMMENTS | READ | POST A COMMENT
5 Ways Retailers Can Stay Safe Over the Holidays
The Direct Rendering Manager (DRM) subsystem in the Linux kernel through 4.x mishandles requests for Graphics Execution Manager (GEM) objects, which allows context-dependent attackers to cause a denial of service (memory consumption) via an application that processes graphics data, as demonstrated b...
netstat in IBM AIX 5.3, 6.1, and 7.1 and VIOS 2.2.x, when a fibre channel adapter is used, allows local users to gain privileges via unspecified vectors.
Cross-site request forgery (CSRF) vulnerability in eXtplorer before 2.1.8 allows remote attackers to hijack the authentication of arbitrary users for requests that execute PHP code.
Directory traversal vulnerability in QNAP QTS before 4.1.4 build 0910 and 4.2.x before 4.2.0 RC2 build 0910, when AFP is enabled, allows remote attackers to read or write to arbitrary files by leveraging access to an OS X (1) user or (2) guest account.
Cisco Application Policy Infrastructure Controller (APIC) 1.1j allows local users to gain privileges via vectors involving addition of an SSH key, aka Bug ID CSCuw46076.
Security researchers are finding that there's a growing market for the vulnerabilities they discover – and persistent conundrum as to the right way to disclose them. Dark Reading editors will speak to experts -- Veracode CTO and co-founder Chris Wysopal and HackerOne co-founder and CTO Alex Rice -- about bug bounties and the expanding market for zero-day security vulnerabilities.