Dubai Police Arrest Bitcoin Conman Scamming Users For Over US$100k
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Dubai Police Arrest Bitcoin Conman Scamming Users For Over US$100k
Rather than paying for the cryptocurrency through legal means, he asked for customer passwords to check the bitcoin balances in question.
Bitcoin scams can be found all over the world these days. The allure of cryptocurrency opens the door for criminals looking to take other people’s money. One such scam was recently unveiled in Dubai, as three Gulf residents lost over US$100,000 in Bitcoin. The Asian conman behind this scam has been arrested after a sting operation.
Buying and selling Bitcoin in Dubai is often done in a peer-to-peer manner. It is very common for interested traders to buy cryptocurrency from unknown sellers through dedicated platforms. One such seller, of Asian decent, tricked three Dubai residents into selling their bitcoins to him.
Rather than paying for the cryptocurrency through legal means, he asked for customer passwords to check the bitcoin balances in question. Once this information was received, he transferred the funds to his own Bitcoin wallet addresses. The conman would the convert the Bitcoin funds to regular currency.
Police officials discovered the Asian unemployed man went from living in shared accommodations to renting a high-take apartment. Additionally, his hobbies went through a drastic change as well, including jet skiing and driving quad bikes. For some reason, he also has a taste for fancy and expensive watches.
At this stage, the Dubai Police is looking over all of the gathered evidence. A total of US$102,179 worth of Bitcoin has been stolen from these three Dubai residents. However, it is likely the Asian conman tricked other Bitcoin users into granting him access to their accounts. Right now, it remains a mystery as to why this was done in the first place. All anyone needs is the Bitcoin wallet address to look up its current balance.
Arresting the conman was not overly difficult, as the Dubai Police set up a fake account pretending to buy 1,000 Bitcoin. They deliberately targeted the suspect, who agreed to the deal. Once he showed up, officials took him into custody right away, and he is currently awaiting trial. Several fraud charges have been filed against him, although no trial date was announced yet.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.