The IRS wants to ID every US Coinbase user from 2013 to 2015 | CIO
2017 CIO 100 Call for Entries State of the CIO Careers Consumer Tech IT Strategy
The IRS wants to ID every US Coinbase user from 2013 to 2015
The government suspects some Bitcoin holders have been evading taxes
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has asked a court in California to order Coinbase, a Bitcoin exchange, to hand over the identities of active U.S. users of its service from the beginning of 2013 to the end of 2015.
In a filing Thursday to the U.S. District Court in San Francisco, the IRS said it's investigating whether virtual currency users failed to report income on transactions conducted in the Bitcoin virtual currency. It's targeting Bitcoin because it's the most commonly used of a number of digital currencies.
"Because the IRS considers virtual currencies to be property, United States taxpayers can realize a taxable gain from buying, selling, or trading in virtual currencies. There is a likelihood that United States taxpayers are failing to properly determine and report any taxable gain from such transactions," it argued.
[ Also on CIO.com: Download the State of the CIO 2016 report ]
The IRS put taxpayers on notice in 2014 that they had to declare gains on virtual currency transactions. The agency says it has already found examples of attempted tax evasion using Coinbase accounts.
Two taxpayers, both of them companies, used separate accounts to conceal Bitcoin transactions as tech expenses on their tax returns, the IRS said. It also cited a third case involving a taxpayer who sent money to an offshore tax haven and brought it back into the U.S. in Bitcoin.
As a result, the IRS contends it's likely other users are also evading taxes through such schemes.
In addition to customer details, the agency is also after transaction records, account statements, and records of payments made and processed for the users.
San Francisco-based Coinbase said it would oppose the demand, in part because the government hasn't alleged the company has done anything wrong.
IRS Uncorks Dirty Dozen Tax Scams for 2013
"Although Coinbase's general practice is to cooperate with properly targeted law enforcement inquiries, we are extremely concerned with the indiscriminate breadth of the government's request," it said in a statement.
To comment on this article and other CIO content, visit us on Facebook, LinkedIn or Twitter.
Martyn Williams covers general technology news for the IDG News Service and is based in San Francisco. He was previously based in Tokyo.
Millonaria de Lima Revela Cómo Gana $472 la Hora Desde Casa
Mamá Millonaria De Lima Cuenta La Historia De Cómo Se Gana $472/hr Desde Casa
Esto Producto Regenera El Cabello De Forma Natural
Doctores Asombrados! 1 Píldora Le Ayuda A Perder 12Kg En 4 Semanas!
Join Revcontent To Increase User Engagement and Reach
5 easy ways to keep employees engaged in wellness
Google AMP Builds a Better User Experience on Mobile
We're now using social media to take your comments and feedback. Learn more about this here.
EVGA GTX 1060 3GB review: A compelling $200 graphics card with a questionable
Nvidia's new 3GB version of the GeForce GTX 1060 goes toe-to-toe with the $200 Radeon RX 480—in theory.
Amazon Echo vs. Google Home: The choice is obvious
Sign up and receive the latest news, reviews and trends on your favorite technology topics.
The Apple Pencil is an amazing tool for taking notes, and in this roundup you'll find nine of the best...
Deep-dive review: The iPhone 7 Plus is the best iPhone yet
Apple has to out-execute itself (and its rivals) every year to coerce millions of users to upgrade and...
Outsourcing and Contingent Labor: CIOs look beyond cost savings towards
3 Tips to Deliver Fast Performance Across Mobile Web
Big Data for Good: Using Data & Analytics to Benefit Society (And Make Money)
From 0 to DevOps in 80 Days: Lessons Learned Moving from On-Prem to Cloud Native
Harnessing the Three Forms of Big Data Analytics Innovation
The journey to the cloud is all about managing multiple environments, which is what 'hybrid' really...
See what all the Angular 2 excitement is about and why it’s different from every other JavaScript...
Smartphone buyers have a lot to look forward to in 2017. Devices will be thinner, faster, and perhaps a...
A 15-step checklist for a secure Linux server
The negative career implications of choosing not to harden your Kali Linux host are severe, so I’ll...
Where do you stack up with your IT counterparts on cloud investment?
Sign up for Newsletters Sign up for Insider
ABOUT CIO AD CHOICES ADVERTISING CAREERS AT IDG CONTACT US E-COMMERCE AFFILIATE RELATIONSHIPS PRIVACY POLICY TERMS OF SERVICE SITE MAP
Copyright © 1994 - 2016 CXO Media Inc. a subsidiary of IDG Enterprise