TechCrunch Launches New Series 'Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain' – CoinSpeaker
Don’t Miss Deals As Bitcoin Black Friday 2016 Begins!
Goldman Sachs and Santander Leave R3 Blockchain Consortium
Bitcoin Price Leaps to $745 as Chinese Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low
CME Group Launches Bitcoin Reference Rate and Bitcoin Real Time Index
BITCOIN, BLOCKCHAIN, CRYPTOCURRENCIES, NEWS, STORY OF THE DAY, VIDEOS
TechCrunch Launches New Series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain’
BY TATSIANA YABLONSKAYA ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11TH, 2016 3:54AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT
The six-episode series will focus on bitcoin future and people behind the cryptocurrency.
Bitcoin is a relatively young cryptocurrency. Much time and efforts are needed for people to get used to it. In order to provide additional education in the sphere of bitcoin and its underlying technology blockchain, TechCrunch has started an exclusive web series on its YouTube Channel on October 10.
The series called “Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain” is based on the book Digital Gold by Nathaniel Popper. It is produced by Stateless Media and TechCrunch. The series will feature experienced bitcoin developers, influencers and scholars tracing the history of bitcoin and analyzing its future. TechCrunch informs that in total it is planning to create six episodes.
The first episode went live on Monday. It started with words of Nathaniel Popper:
“Bitcoin first emerged in 2008, the initial paper and software came from someone going by the name of Satoshi Nakamoto. The idea behind the system was that it would be a financial network outside the control of government, outside the control of banks …”
The first episode focuses on the notion of blockchain, the technology that allows bitcoins to be transferred between entities, as well as the motives behind its creators. The episode touches as well the topic of the platform’s future, the attitude of governments and big banks to the cryptocurrency since its creators wanted to sidestep these very institutions.
According to TechCrunch, the second episode will be devoted to the global network of mines and miners that govern the bitcoin system.
“Even more fascinating than the idea of a digital currency are those who dedicate their lives to it. A network of miners all across the world, many of whom are in China, run the system. They not only process every Bitcoin transaction, but they also play a large role in governing the platform, for better or for worse,” says TechCrunch.
“Episode two looks at where these Bitcoin mines are developing and who is behind them. It also explores the role of these miners, the decision power that they possess and the delicate balance of power required for the platform to operate in the way in which it was intended.”
The third episode is planned to explain how to deal with the flood of traffic to the network – the main question is whether it should be centralized or decentralized. The topic of overall promotion and acceptance of cryptocurrencies will be raised in the fourth episode.
The fifth episode will be devoted to Ethereum and the last one will look into the recent debate between the Open Blockchain (Silicon Valley) and the Closed Blockchain (Wall Street).
Don’t Miss Deals As Bitcoin Black Friday 2016 Begins!
Morgan Stanley Might Leave Blockchain Consortium R3 CEV
Cheapest Lifetime Bitcoin Cloud Mining Contracts With HashFlare, Ten Percent Discount For One Week Only
Internet of Things May Provoke Large Scale Attacks in the Near Future
This Game Will Keep You Up All Night!
This game will keep you up all night!
10 Easy Skin Secrets Dermatologists Don’t Want You to Know
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
We welcome comments that advance the story directly or with relevant tangential information. We try to block comments that use offensive language, all capital letters or appear to be spam, and we review comments frequently to ensure they meet our standards. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Coinspeaker Ltd.
Morgan Stanley Might Leave Blockchain Consortium R3 CEV
Online Wallet Provider iPayYou Enables Bitcoin Payment for Amazon
Siemens and U.S. Startup LO3 Energy Partners on Blockchain Microgrids
Coinbase Promises to Fight the IRS in Court Over Data on All Active US Bitcoin Traders
Stripe Unveils Radar to Detect E-Commerce Fraud Behavior
TechCrunch Launches New Series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain’
Payoneer Raises $180M in Series E Funding Round to Help Businesses Move Money Across Borders
IBM to Invest $200 Million Into Watson Internet of Things A.I. Business in Germany
Copyright © 2016 STB Media Ltd. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of STB Media Ltd. is prohibited.