R3 Adds Bitcoin Exchange Veteran to Research Lab - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
R3 Adds Bitcoin Exchange Veteran to Research Lab
Pete Rizzo (@pete_rizzo_) | Published on October 3, 2016 at 13:16 GMT
Former itBit client group director Antony Lewis has officially joined banking consortium R3.
Announced today, the move will find Lewis taking the reins as director of the startup's lab and research center in Singapore. Lewis left itBit (now Paxos) in mid-2015 and has since served in consulting roles focused on blockchain, including a stint with 'Big Four' accounting firm Ernst & Young.
Notably, the move comes amid a larger bid by R3 to bolster its presence in Asia amid an uptick in interest from enterprise firms.
In recent months, R3 has seen Asia-based firms including Ping An and life insurance firm AIA announce they had joined as paying members.
The development further coincides with an increase in China-based distributed ledger working groups. ChinaLedger, a regional-specific blockchain consortium, launched in May, while similar efforts have sprung up in major cities including Shanghai and Shenzhen.
Why Broadridge is Investing Millions in Blockchain Voting
JP Morgan is Quietly Developing a Private Ethereum...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 22, 2016 at 15:10 | Pete Rizzo
Most R3 Members Will Invest in Funding Effort, Sources Say
Despite notable exits, sources say the majority of R3's members are likely to participate in its ongoing funding round.
Nov 21, 2016 at 21:46 | Pete Rizzo
Banco Santander has departed the R3 blockchain consortium, according to a representative.
Nov 21, 2016 at 13:25 | Stan Higgins
One of R3CEV's initial members isn't renewing its agreement with the world's largest blockchain consortium.
Nov 21, 2016 at 13:00 | Stan Higgins
UBS plans to invest in blockchain as part of an expansion plan in China.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.