BTCC Takes Aim at Bitfinex With US Dollar Bitcoin Trading - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
BTCC Takes Aim at Bitfinex With US Dollar Bitcoin Trading
Pete Rizzo (@pete_rizzo_) | Published on November 1, 2016 at 11:02 GMT
At least that's how BTCC CEO Bobby Lee describes his Shanghai-based bitcoin exchange startup's affiliation with its domestic market. Formerly known as BTC China, BTCC markets itself as the "world's longest-running bitcoin exchange", but it's now taking steps to expand its customer base internationally.
BTCC announced today that it is launching a new service BTCC USD Exchange, one that boasts a new user-interface and that is operated by a separate legal entity. Run out of Hong Kong, the US dollar trading arm will complement BTCC's Chinese yuan trading, and Lee said support for more currencies is likely to follow. It officially launches tomorrow.
"The USD exchange is our first concrete step to show the world we're going to be an international company."
Notably, the offering will not yet be available to US customers, as BTCC has yet to receive approval from FinCEN or the NYDFS. (Lee said the startup had applied for both, though it's far from alone in waiting to launch services in New York).
But Lee also sees a strategic opening in the market given the breach of Bitfinex, the Hong Kong-based bitcoin exchange that this August lost nearly 120,000 BTC (then worth more than $60m) in a high-profile hack.
"We're trying to go up against Bitfinex," Lee said. "I think their volume is thin."
In conversation, Lee was open about thinking that BTCC could "outdo" the exchange, which has long held an appeal with traders given its margin trading system.
In this light, Lee said that BTCC is exploring whether to add margin trading, and that it is taking steps to court already active bitcoin exchange users.
BTCC said it will use a link-based referral program, FIX APIs and maker-taker model to incentivize customers. Further, it will offer faster deposits due to an integration with its existing mining pool.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 21, 2016 at 13:00 | Stan Higgins
UBS plans to invest in blockchain as part of an expansion plan in China.
Nov 16, 2016 at 17:00 | Corin Faife
The Korea Exchange, South Korea’s sole securities exchange operator, has launched a new service that utilizes blockchain technology.
Nov 16, 2016 at 12:30 | Pete Rizzo
Singapore's Central Bank to Test Blockchain-Backed Digital Currency
Blockchain consortium startup R3CEV and eight major banks are said to be participating in the forthcoming trial.
Nov 15, 2016 at 17:30 | Corin Faife
China's CITIC Hosts Seminar on Banking and Blockchain
China's CITIC bank, one of the country's largest commercial banks, recently held a seminar devoted to blockchain.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.