Bitcoin Eyes $13 Billion Market Cap; The Trump and Hillary Effect - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Eyes $13 Billion Market Cap; The Trump and Hillary Effect
As the fight between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton continues to gain steam, the Bitcoin price may witness further increase in the coming days. Read more...
The recent developments in the cryptocurrency market have got Bitcoin’s price soaring. The digital currency has gained almost $100 since the past few weeks as a cloud of uncertainty looms over the global markets. While the worsening Chinese economy set the ball rolling, the upcoming US elections may further amplify the situation.
Bitcoin price received a much-needed boost in the recent days due to renewed interest in the digital currency among Chinese investors. Recent reports have indicated high chances of continued capital outflow from China, which is increasing year on year. As the Chinese population continues to look for alternate modes of investment and fund transfer that can overcome strict capital controls, Bitcoin presents itself as an ideal solution.
Driven by the Chinese activity, Bitcoin price has now stabilized at the $725 range. But not for long, the recent events connected to the US presidential elections may soon lead to further increase in demand for Bitcoin, driving its price upwards to $800. The US economy and stock market is deeply entwined with the country’s political landscape. The upcoming elections on November 8, 2016, will be one such checkpoint that will decide the direction markets will take in the coming days.
The presidential candidates, Donald Trump and previous first lady and secretary of state Hillary Clinton are currently having a close competition. With Trump condemned to lose, a majority of the corporate America has been rallying behind Hillary. Recent polls conducted by media outlets are telling a different story where Trump is emerging as a fierce competitor with only a couple of points difference between them. The Washington Post-ABC News tracking poll has shown Trump leading by one point while the RealClearPolitics average of latest poll results puts Trump 2.2 points behind Clinton.
The poll results have already caused a stir in the financial market. US dollar and Oil are on a decline as investors are favoring stable assets like Gold and Swiss Franc. As the panic continues, investors and traders are expected to consider Bitcoin as another viable investment option at times of financial instability.
The changing landscape was acknowledged by Rabobank analysts quoted by a leading news agency, which stated:
“Trump is seen as narrowing the gap with Clinton. Markets … have succumbed to a risk-off pattern in recent days as a result… Whilst this is still very far from outright panic, it does indicate that market participants are taking precautions.”
The market volatility may get worse as the US Federal Reserve contemplates on the interest rate policy for banking and financial institutions. An increase in the interest rates is expected to potentially impact the country’s economic recovery.
As expectations of increased demand for Bitcoin strengthens, the digital currency’s market cap is expected to rise from the current $11.5 billion to $13 billion, effectively putting the digital currency’s price to around $800.
With 6 more days to the US presidential elections, the market is expected to stay volatile. Any further changes will follow the election results. Trump winning the elections is expected to have a favorable impact on the digital currency as the value of US dollar is expected to fall further, at least in the first few days of Trump’s victory.
Ref: Reuters | Financial Times | Business Insider (image)| CoinMarketCap
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.