Bitcoin Price Weekly Analysis – BTC/USD To Correct Lower? - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Price Weekly Analysis – BTC/USD To Correct Lower?
Bitcoin price recently corrected once against the US Dollar, but it looks like the BTC/USD pair may correct further towards the $680 level.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
Bitcoin price after trading as high as $758 started correcting lower against the US Dollar.
Recently, there was a break below a bullish trend line formed on the 4-hours chart (data feed from SimpleFX) of BTC/USD.
The price is also below the 100 simple moving average, calling for further correction waves.
Bitcoin price recently corrected once against the US Dollar, but it looks like the BTC/USD pair may correct further towards the $680 level.
BTC price gained recently to trade as high as $758 against the US Dollar where it found sellers and moved down. The downside move was sharp, and took the price towards the $665 level. Afterwards, there was a correction initiated during which the price traded above the 50% Fib retracement level of the last drop from the $758 high to $665 low.
However, the wave failed and could not gain momentum. There was a rejection around the 76.4% Fib retracement level of the last drop from the $758 high to $665 low. So, it looks like the price made a higher-low and turned down. It recently broke a bullish trend line formed on the 4-hours chart (data feed from SimpleFX) of BTC/USD. It can be considered as a sign of further losses in the short term. The most important point is the fact that the price also traded below the 100 simple moving average on the same chart.
It looks like the price may extend the current downside to test the 200 simple moving average (H4) at $680-85. It is where the BTC buyers may appear and try to defend the downside move. If you are planning to sell in the short term, then consider it near the 100 simple moving average with a tight stop for a move towards $690-88.
4-hours MACD – The MACD has just moved into the bearish zone.
4-hours RSI (Relative Strength Index) – The RSI is well below the 50 level, signaling weakness.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Aayush has spent over seven years as a financial markets contributor and observer. He specializes in market strategies and technical analysis, comes with an IT background. He possess strong technical analytical skills and is well known for his entertaining and informative analysis of the currency and commodities markets. He is a software engineer by profession, loves blogging and observing financial markets. View all posts by Aayush Jindal
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.