Independence Party given mandate to form Iceland government - Salon.com
Independence Party given mandate to form Iceland government
FILE - A Saturday, Oct. 29, 2016 file photo of Bjarni Benediktsson of The Independence Party gesturing after the first results of the election in Reykjavik, Iceland. Iceland’s president on Wednesday, Nov. 2, 2016, asked the center-right Independence Party to form a government after it won the biggest share of votes in the country's election. President Gudni Th. Johannessson said giving a mandate to Independence Party chairman Bjarni Benediktsson was the "most viable option" for getting a stable government for the Atlantic island nation. (AP Photo/Frank Augstein, File)(Credit: AP)
LONDON (AP) — Iceland’s president on Wednesday asked the center-right Independence Party to form a government after it won the biggest share of votes in the country’s election.
President Gudni Th. Johannessson said giving a mandate to Independence Party chairman Bjarni Benediktsson was the “most viable option” for getting a stable government for the Atlantic island nation.The Independence Party — half of a coalition that has governed since 2013 — won 21 of 63 parliament seats in Saturday’s election and will need coalition partners to assemble the 32 seats needed to govern. It could seek support from the conservative Progressive Party or the centrist Regeneration party — though there is no guarantee of success.
The president’s office said Johannessson had asked Benediktsson to report by Monday on the progress of his coalition talks.
Iceland is a volcanic island near the Arctic Circle with a population of 320,000. It suffered years of economic upheaval after the country’s debt-swollen banks collapsed during the 2008 global financial crisis.
How To Learn Words Quickly And Effectively In Any Language
Ranked from Ugh to Ughhh: The 39 Worst Moves of All Time
See Which Actress is the Same Age as You
Aged 35 and speaks 11 languages - his 11 tricks to learn any language
The 50 Best Movies of All Time: How Many Have You Seen? PrettyFamous
Gigi Hadid Stuns in New Reebok Campaign Muscle & Fitness
The Most Famous Actor Born the Same Year as You PrettyFamous | By Graphiq
Popular Italian Baby Names MooseRoots | By Graphiq
How Chris Pratt Dropped 60 Pounds in Six Months Men's Fitness
Robert Reich: These three Trump enablers made this election season unbearable
Mike Pence shrugs off Donald Trump’s massive conflicts of interest: “Who cares?”
Steve Bannon runs an anti-Semitic website, is a misogynist and will be one of Donald Trump’s senior advisers
Seth Meyers on Trump’s reaction to Chelsea bombing: “Are you a presidential candidate or the old lady who lives across the hall from me?”
Michigan Democrat slams Hillary Clinton’s terrible campaign strategy: “How would any sane person not predict how this one would go?”
25 Names Nobody Wants to Name Their Child Anymore
These Quarterbacks Are the Most Interception-Prone in NFL History
Obese to Beast: Guy Bravely Strips Down to Show What Extreme…
The alpha dog that wouldn’t hunt: How Trump’s ludicrous “alpha male” act is destroying him
Dear hard-working white people: Congratulations, you played yourself
Donald Trump is going to make money off the Secret Service detail assigned to protect him
Neoliberalism’s epic fail: The reaction to Hillary Clinton’s loss exposed the impotent elitism of liberalism
Donald Trump’s mandate to govern is laughable, a Gallup poll shows
It’s science, stupid: Why do Trump supporters believe so many things that are crazy and wrong?
It’s a Black Friday blowout over at Donald Trump’s online store
Paul Krugman: Donald Trump’s infrastructure plan is one big scam
Donald Trump says he won’t pursue investigations against Hillary Clinton. This is not a good thing
Republicans did everything to stop President Obama, but now want America to back a president who lost the popular vote
The story behind Kristofferson’s iconic ‘Me and Bobby McGee’
Donald Trump doesn’t sleep, but instead watches “enormous amounts of television”
An unreasonable amount of people are searching “Tiffany Trump” on Pornhub
About | Advertising | Contact | Corrections | Help | Investor Relations | Privacy | Terms of Service
Copyright © 2016 Salon Media Group, Inc. Reproduction of material from any Salon pages without written permission is strictly prohibited.
SALON ® is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as a trademark of Salon Media Group Inc.
Associated Press articles: Copyright © 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.