One in Four Bitcoin Nodes Are Now Upgraded for SegWit - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
One in Four Bitcoin Nodes Are Now Upgraded for SegWit
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 11, 2016 at 17:45 GMT
Bitcoin network data shows that 25% of nodes worldwide are now running code for Segregated Witness.
Proposed late last year as a means to scale the bitcoin network, the upgrade was released last month by the volunteer development community Bitcoin Core in its latest software version. SegWit was put forward in a bid to increase the network’s transaction capacity without increasing the block size limit, drawing both praise and criticism from some quarters of the community amid a contentious debate.
Network data suggests that the software version including SegWit is now the most commonly used among note operators.
Bitnodes reports that just over 25% of bitcoin nodes are running on the latest Core software – 0.13.1 – which includes the code for SegWit. By the data service's count, that's 1,362 nodes out of a total of 5,436 nodes connected to the bitcoin network that are now prepared for the upgrade.
By comparison, 1,204 nodes, roughly 22% of the network, is running version 0.12.1, with 964 or nearly 18% running on 0.13.0.
Alternative bitcoin implementation Bitcoin Unlimited, which allows operators to set their own variable block size, is being run by 5.6% of the network, or 306 nodes, according to the data.
Despite support from a quarter of all nodes, SegWit isn’t yet activated across the network. In order for that to take place, 95% of all bitcoin miners need to adopt the software, followed by a grace period constituting 2,016 transaction blocks.
The process for actually signaling support for SegWit is expected to begin sometime around 19th November on the first network difficulty retarget after the 15th of this month. In the meantime, bitcoin wallet providers and other companies have begun laying the groundwork for supporting the upgrade.
The development is notable, as some in the bitcoin mining space have pledged to block the proposal unless there is movement on a bid to increase the block size.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 18, 2016 at 14:14 | Alyssa Hertig
Bitcoin Miners Can Now Signal Support for SegWit
If they so choose, miners can now safely signal their support for a major bitcoin update.
Nov 17, 2016 at 20:05 | Stan Higgins
ViaBTC Sparks Bitcoin Scaling Debate in Reddit AMA
The head of a Chinese mining pool backing an alternative bitcoin implementation completed a Reddit AMA earlier today.
Nov 12, 2016 at 15:30 | Alyssa Hertig
What's Left Before Bitcoin's Lightning Network Goes Live
There aren't many steps left before bitcoin's Lightning Network will be finished — or at least an early version of it.
Oct 31, 2016 at 15:20 | Alyssa Hertig
Bitcoin Update Brings Scaling Solution Closer to Activation
The latest bitcoin update features code that could potentially activate a long-anticipated scaling solution.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.