Bitcoin Exchange Safello Acquires Futures Trading Platform ICBIT
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Exchange Safello Acquires Futures Trading Platform ICBIT
ICBIT has been on the company’s radar for quite some time now. Among the services offered are futures products such as the Bitcoin price rate against USD, and LTC.
Most people know Safello as a Swedish Bitcoin exchange platform. With their quick deposit and withdrawal functionality, the company has become a rising star in the cryptocurrency world. But Safello is looking to expand their offerings, as they acquired Assets BT Technology Inc. This crypto futures exchange platform was founded a few years ago, and services 12,000 customers to date.
Not too long ago, the Swedish Bitcoin exchange unveiled their relaunched platform. At that time, it became apparent Safello had major plans for the future, and the acquisition of ICBIT plays a significant role in that process. With the redesigned buy and sell process, new technologies and services can be integrated into the exchange platform with relative ease.
To oversee the integration of ICBIT’s technology into the Safello platform, Aleksey Bragin will join the Swedish company as CTO. Additionally, he will also aid in the future development of the Safello platform and its services. With a strong focus on futures products, exciting things are on the horizon for the popular Bitcoin exchange.
This acquisition is made possible thanks to the exchange successfully completing  crowdfunding campaign in Q3 of 2016. The company welcomed these new investors alongside their existing backers. With names such as Roger Ver, Erik Voorhees, and Digital Currency Group backing the project there is a bright future ahead for Safello.
Safello CEO Frank Schuil commented on the acquisition as follows:
“In the last three years, we have had M&A discussions with over eight companies. BT Technology Inc. was the first deal we evaluated that made commercial, technological and operational sense. There are exciting synergies between our platforms that will strengthen our market position and benefit Safello’s customer base. To put it simply, it was a no-brainer.”
ICBIT has been on the company’s radar for quite some time now. Among the services offered are futures products such as the Bitcoin price rate against USD, and LTC. Additionally, they also focus on the mining difficulty. With over 12,000 users and 11.6 million orders, ICBIT quickly became a very popular platform.
It will be interesting to see how this new technology will be integrated. The Swedish Bitcoin exchange always maintains a strong focus on compliance and security in the cryptocurrency market. However, companies in the Bitcoin world cannot afford to stand still in this day and age of innovation and new technologies. Integrating new services and products is a must to keep that competitive edge.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.