Bitcoins may be recognised by the Malta Gaming Authority
Be first to read MaltaToday and save 40% with our digital edition. Get it now for only €50 per year
Grilled aubergine filled with goat cheese dates and bacon
[WATCH] Busuttil urges supporters to never give up: 'Today, David...
Bitcoins may be recognised by the Malta Gaming Authority
It is possible that the Bitcoin cryptocurrency will be recognised by the Malta Gaming Authority,  Maltese investment broker EXANTE says
At present, hundreds of casinos licensed in Malta cannot accept Bitcoin due to the MGA’s regulations
Earlier this year CoinTelegraph indicated the possibility of the Bitcoin currency being recognised by the Malta Gaming Authority (MGA) as well as other global regulators in the very near future.
At present, hundreds of casinos licensed in Malta cannot accept Bitcoin due to the MGA’s regulations.
“The acceptance of the Bitcoin as payment method would no doubt help popularise it among online casinos and gamers while also attracting Bitcoin casinos that currently use FIAT currency,” Malta regulated investment broker EXANTE said in a statement.
It added that Malta-based Bitcoin casino BitStarz is of the opinion that the adoption of Bitcoin would open up opportunities for spreading cryptocurrency in the gambling industry. According to Sasha Jade, marketing manager at BitStarz, the problem lies in the fact that FIAT money casinos, which still hold 99% of the gaming market, currently do not accept Bitcoin.
“The recognition of Bitcoin by Maltese gaming authorities in the years ahead would allow Bitcoin to get on the global gaming market and expand into Asian and Russian markets,” Patrick J O’ Brien, EXANTE’s communication director, said.
Grilled aubergine filled with goat cheese dates an...
New lido on reclaimed land proposed in Sliema
[WATCH] Busuttil urges supporters to never give up: 'Today, David overcame Goliath'
Electoral Commission meeting tomorrow to decide on PN’s two seats
[WATCH] PN gets two additional seats in parliament • Muscat: 'Labour will respect decision'
[WATCH] Prime Minister boasts he is not guided by polls: ‘I don’t follow numbers. I make them.’
Turkeys in focus, trading paused | Calamatta Cuschieri
Is it the parish or the parish priest?
Fitch downgrades Bank of Valletta rating, bank moves to increase capital levels
PN leader visits Attard shops, distributes party’s retail policy document
MediaToday is an independent media house based in Malta. Copyright © MediaToday Co. Ltd, Vjal ir-Rihan, San Gwann SGN 9016, Malta, Europe
Reproduction of material from this website without written permission is strictly prohibited.