itcoin continues to show strength as it is continuing to test the recent $750 high as these words are being typed. Nothing has changed in terms of targets from what was written in this column yesterday.  Namely, resistance lies in wait ~ $810, but that resistance will likely yield.  Stiffer resistance will likely be seen at ~ $855.
Ethereum continues to disappoint expectations. As these words are being written, ethereum’s daily chart continues to be confounded by the 2nd arc of the 3rd pair.
Price was knocked down hard by the 2nd arc pair (1st arrow), and turned down violently at the end of the 2nd square.  It then meandered sideways until it hit the 3rd arc pair.  Ever since price hit that pair back in the beginning of October, the pair has bedevilled the asset.  Finally, after more than 5 weeks of falling prices, price rose again to meet and test the resisting arc.  I had hoped it would break through.  But it turned down and has fallen every time it touched that arc for the past 3 days.
The coin should find support soon ~ $9.10.  But I don’t suggest buying it until we see a convincing close on the sunny side of the arc that has stopped it for over 5 weeks now.  Far better, imho, to buy a bit higher with confirmation, than get a better price of a coin which has not yet stopped falling.  That is, of course, just my opinion.  Your mileage may vary.
Anyways, imho, Bitcoin is a far better long trade right now than ethereum is.
  Remember:  The author is a trader who is subject to all manner of error in judgement.  Do your own research, and be prepared to take full responsibility for your own trades.
Posted in: Altcoin News, Bitcoin Analysis, Bitcoin Price News, News Tagged in: Bitcoin price
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.