Bitcoin Is Too Transparent, Says Blockchain Surveillance Firm Executive - CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin Is Too Transparent, Says Blockchain Surveillance Firm Executive
ames Smith, CEO of Elliptic, a new start-up that specializes in the provision of blockchain intelligence to law enforcement and other financial institutions, stated during the Blockchain Money conference held in London last week that “Bitcoin is too transparent.”
In his presentation Smith stated that they have identified 200,000 bitcoin addresses, but “we don’t try to identify every user, what we identify is criminal authority.” The “vast majority of the activity in bitcoin is perfectly legitimate,” he stated, before introducing Alphabay, a darknet drugs market.
They are pretty well run, he says. They have job postings, press releases, for what they do, and “we study them every day,” Smith says, “we think it’s a pretty well run business.” In explaining the flow of funds, he stated they enter through Bitcoin Frog, a mixer, and exit through local bitcoins which does not require much AML/KYC, Smith stated.
Smith, in explaining they try to track and identify illicit activity, mentioned Ransomware which, at its peak, was making tens of million dollars a day, says Smith. In this case, the funds usually enter legitimately as ransomware victims buy the bitcoins from reputable exchanges such as Coinbase or Gemini. Funds then flow out through Btc-e, Smith stated, an eastern European exchange which, like localbitcoins, does not implement many, if any, AML/KYC measures.
Dr. James Smith, Elliptic’s CEO, Presenting at the Blockchain Money Conference in London
“We’re trying to move bitcoin forward in compliance with regulation,” Smith said, before I asked him how Zcash would affect the work Elliptic does:
“I talk to the founders of Zcash quite regularly,” Smith stated. “If the entire world uses Zcash, then there will be different layers of visibility. $100 million businesses will reveal information to each other,” he continued.
“It is naïve to think we’ll move to a world where transactions are completely opaque,” Smith said, “but it is realistic to think that we will move to a world of selective transparency,” he argued, before adding that “bitcoin is too transparent.” Sometimes individuals use mixers, he said, to make it more private, but “exchanges ask us to notify them if transactions come from a mixer,” Smith concluded.
When the blockchain concept gripped the world’s imagination earlier this year, many analysts and business consultants argued that blockchains lack privacy and reveal sensitive information to competitors. Many companies working in the private blockchain space, therefore, found privacy to be an important consideration and a reason to not use public blockchains.
However, Zcash’s breakthrough may provide a solution for both public and private blockchains as it allows for sharing of information with chosen parties, such as regulators or employees, while at the same time not revealing them to anyone else, including miners. Ethereum plans to add same capacity. Bitcoin, too, may follow, thus, potentially, solving the privacy problem.
Images from Shutterstock and Andrew Quenston for CCN.
Posted in: Bitcoin Events, Bitcoin Opinion, News Tagged in: anonymity, elliptic, Ethereum News, privacy, Zcash
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
NextSingapore Bank Claims First Regional Use of Blockchain Tech for Remittance14/11/2016
PreviousProsecutors Charge Florida Man In Bitcoin Exchange Case Linked To JPMorgan Hacking Probe14/11/2016
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.