Bitcoin Scaling Solution SegWit Gets Possible Release Date - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitcoin Scaling Solution SegWit Gets Possible Release Date
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 17, 2016 at 22:13 GMT
The code for a long-in-development bitcoin scaling solution could be ready for activation as soon as 15th November.
The new software – version 0.13.1 – will include more code for Segregated Witness (SegWit), enabling users (and, perhaps most notably, miners) to begin the upgrade process. The launch will kick off a process by which the extended stakeholders in the distributed network will be asked to signal whether they support SegWit.
The news comes from an update on a mailing list for developers working on bitcoin's primary software, Bitcoin Core. There, developer Pieter Wuille posted new details this weekend about the planned rollout of SegWit. A release candidate for 0.13.1 has since been published.
The pending launch follows months of testing by developers. SegWit's code, for example, was first released for testing over the summer, but the new version would bring that code into production.
The November release date doesn't mean bitcoin's capacity issues will be instantly resolved, however.
For example, SegWit won't become the law of the land, so to speak, until 95% of the world's bitcoin miners signal their support by running the upgraded version. Furthermore, 2,016 transaction blocks need to pass after that threshold is reached before the network begins enforcing the change.
While promising, the release could spark further debate within the bitcoin community about the ways in which the bitcoin network can be scaled to support more usage given that tensions have recently been heightened over a perceived lack of progress on the issue.
Other software implementations, including Bitcoin Unlimited and Bitcoin Classic, have been put forward as alternatives to the Core approach, advocating for on-chain scaling that would expand the size of transaction blocks on the bitcoin network.
Bank Trials Show India's Blockchain Interest on Rise
Hopes Are High Tomorrow's Ethereum Fork Won't Be Like the...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 18, 2016 at 14:14 | Alyssa Hertig
Bitcoin Miners Can Now Signal Support for SegWit
If they so choose, miners can now safely signal their support for a major bitcoin update.
Nov 17, 2016 at 20:05 | Stan Higgins
ViaBTC Sparks Bitcoin Scaling Debate in Reddit AMA
The head of a Chinese mining pool backing an alternative bitcoin implementation completed a Reddit AMA earlier today.
Nov 12, 2016 at 15:30 | Alyssa Hertig
What's Left Before Bitcoin's Lightning Network Goes Live
There aren't many steps left before bitcoin's Lightning Network will be finished — or at least an early version of it.
Nov 11, 2016 at 17:45 | Stan Higgins
One in Four Bitcoin Nodes Are Now Upgraded for SegWit
Bitcoin network data shows that 25 percent of nodes worldwide are signaling support for Segregated Witness.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.