Buying Bitcoin Becomes More Popular In India Amid Rupee Controversy
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Buying Bitcoin Becomes More Popular In India Amid Rupee Controversy
Looking over the Google Trends page, it looks like “buy Bitcoin” is quickly gaining popularity.
There seems to be a lot of confusion regarding the financial situation in India. Albeit the 500 and 1,000 Rupee notes are now illegal, that does not mean they are useless. Consumers can exchange them at 70% of face value at exchange offices. That said, the interest in Bitcoin continues to grow in the country, and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
Cryptocurrency enthusiasts remain hopeful Bitcoin will dethrone cash sooner or later. While that sentiment is shared by a lot of people, it also seems highly unrealistic. In fact, there is no reason why cash and Bitcoin can’t co-exist for a while. India’s ban on high-denominated Rupee banknotes will not cause their cash ecosystem to collapse all of a sudden.
But it does have an impact on Bitcoin interest, as consumers are looking for alternative investment options. Together with gold and other precious metals, Bitcoin provides investors with a possibility for passive gains over time. With a limited supply of BTC available and the demand for Bitcoin growing, prices are due to shoot up at some point.
Additionally, India is a country where unbanked individuals are not difficult to come by. Millions of people have limited or no access to financial services through traditional means. This means Bitcoin can fill a need, should that ever arise. But for now, most people see cryptocurrency as an investment vehicle, and that is just fine.
At the same time, this economic turmoil indirectly creates new job opportunities. Indian Bitcoin users with a bank account can purchase cryptocurrency off an exchange, and resell it in a peer-to-peer trading fashion. It’s not unlikely people will pay a premium price too, as they paid nearly US$2,300 for one ounce of gold a few days ago.
Looking over the Google Trends page, it looks like “buy Bitcoin” is quickly gaining popularity. Do not be mistaken in thinking this will make the Bitcoin price shoot up to over US$1,000 all of a sudden, though. Demand is still tiny compared to traditional markets, and there is no indication bitcoin will overtake cash anytime soon.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.