Bitcoin Price Watch; Riding Out The Storm - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
here's what we are looking at in the bitcoin price this morning.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
So we are now closing in on the end of the week, and we’ve managed to eek out a couple of good entries, and, in turn, a couple of nice profits on action in the bitcoin price. Things haven’t been exactly at we’d have liked, however. Action has been a little flat, and when we don’t get much volatility, it translates to some difficult trading conditions. Specifically, we often see lots of choppy action, and this choppy action makes it tough to place risk parameters without being overly lenient in an attempt to avoid a chop out on a bias reversal. To make matters even more awkward, when we want to place wide stop losses in order to avoid chop outs, we normally like to also widen out our reward parameters (i.e. place our take profit a little bit higher, or lower, depending on the direction of the trade, than we normally might). With out any sustained momentum, like the situation in which we have found ourselves this week, this isn’t really an option.
Anyway, let’s not dwell on it. We are in a relatively good position considering action to date, and it looks as though we’re going to head into the close of the weekend with some strength. So, with this said, and as we head into the European morning session, take a look at the chart below to get an idea of what is on.
As the chart shows, we are looking at a 15-minute candlestick chart today, which gives us the opportunity to widen out our range a little bit. Support to the downside comes in at 607, while resistance to the upside comes in at 612.
If price breaks below support, we will enter towards a downside target of 600. Conversely, a close above resistance will put us in a long position towards 617.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.