Switzerland outlines plans to regulate fintech, digital currencies
GET THE LATEST GAMBLING NEWS FROM CALVIN AYRE
Switzerland outlines plans to regulate fintech, digital currencies
Swiss lawmakers are taking a slow—but sure—approach to regulate digital currencies and fintech in the country.
Eyeing to introduce legislation in 2017, Switzerland’s Federal Department of Finance (FDF) recently outlined its plan, which include a license that is specifically for fintech companies. The FDF is also planning to create a regulatory “sandbox,” or an innovation area, for experimental firms.
The proposed legislation names the Financial Market Supervisory Authority to become the primary regulator of fintech companies operating in Switzerland. FDF said it plans to delve deeper into bitcoin and other digital currencies, as well as other applications for blockchain.
“The new regulation sets out in concrete terms one of the strategic thrusts of the financial market policy recently adopted by the Federal Council,” FDF said in a statement. “The Federal Council has instructed the FDF to draw up a consultation draft with the required legislative amendments by the start of 2017. Moreover, the FDF should conduct additional clarifications in cooperation with the interested authorities on reducing further barriers to market entry for fintech firms, also those outside financial market law (e.g. legal treatment of virtual currencies and assets).”
Meanwhile, Swiss banks have decided to turn down U.S. residents who want to open bank accounts in Switzerland due to the United States’ new regulations that require banks to disclose information of American accounts.
Known for its classified banking, the European country has signed an agreement with the U.S. Treasury to cooperate with the U.S. tax act, but according to a Coin Telegraph report, Swiss banks have decided to stop accepting clients from the U.S. instead of breaking their promise for confidentiality.
U.S. ambassador to Switzerland was quoted by the news outlet saying some banks, including UBS, Credit Suisse and Corner Bank have “put procedures in place” so they can start serving U.S. customers again.
This, however, could be an opportunity for U.S. customers to switch to bitcoin, which are secured compared to traditional banks.
The price of bitcoin rose to $74002 on Thursday morning, with a trade volume of $10.68 million.
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
TAGS: 500.COM, CHINA, QUFAN INTERNET TECHNOLOGY INC, SOCIAL GAMING, SPORTS LOTTERY
Chinese online sports lottery operator 500.com has taken a controlling stake in a social poker business in an attempt to diversify its currently non-existent revenue stream.
On Friday, 500.com announced that it had taken a 51% stake in Qufan Internet Technology Inc. and Shenzhen Qufan Internet Technology Co. Ltd, which collectively operate a mobile social poker platform.
500.com says the transaction, which will cost RMB 110.5m (US $16m), is subject to certain unspecified conditions. The company didn’t offer any guidance for what type of boost this acquisition might provide to 500.com’s bottom line.
The Nasdaq-listed 500.com is desperate to show investors some capacity to generate revenue, having now gone six straight quarters without a single penny from online lottery operations following Beijing’s March 2015 decision to ‘temporarily’ suspend online sales after uncovering widespread fraud by provincial lottery administrators.
Investors will likely be hoping 500.com’s latest acquisition proves more permanent that its purchase last December of Zhejiang Shangmeng Technology Limited Company, which operates the Sumpay.cn online payment processor. 500.com sold the company in May, and while it realized a tidy profit on the quick turnaround, it didn’t inspire investor confidence in 500.com’s long-term prospects.
Beijing has been typically cryptic regarding when the 20-months-and-counting ‘temporary’ online suspension might be lifted. In May, five government ministries issued a joint notice detailing steps that needed to be taken in order to ensure future online activity would be property scrutinized, but the government has yet to take any demonstrable public action toward achieving those aims.
500.com isn’t alone in eyeing social gaming as a diversification lifeline. Casino and slots operator Entertainment Gaming Asia has been promising to unveil its new ‘Pan-Asian’ social casino platform since March. Earlier this month, the company reported that it was still “testing the platform in certain markets to assess its potential as a provider to long-term earnings.’
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
Bitcoin bounces back to $745 as Chinese yuan drops to 8-year low
Trump adds bitcoin enthusiast Peter Thiel to transition team
The CalvinAyre.com media group is based in Antigua in the West Indies with teams in London, Manila and Vancouver covering the global gambling industry.
Along with ensuring fair coverage of the gambling industry we highlight the great work of the Calvin Ayre Foundation.