Bitcoin or Ether? College Teams Compete in $10k Crypto Investment Contest - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitcoin or Ether? College Teams Compete in $10k Crypto Investment Contest
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 7, 2016 at 22:17 GMT
Students from 13 colleges worldwide are vying for a $10,000 first prize in a cryptocurrency investment contest.
Sponsored by digital currency exchange Kraken and curated by The Economist, the “Kraken Case Study Competition” sees teams aiming to craft what they believe is the most effective strategy for investing $1m in a digital currency portoflio. Participants must choose whether to stock their portfolios with bitcoin, ether (the cryptocurrency of the ethereum platform) or some combination of the two.
From there, they'll need to defend their choice, not just for the short-term but the long term as well – their portfolio, according to the rules, would need to sit for 5 years before any returns can be realized.
In order to win, the teams involved must make their case via video – the entries can already be seen online. Second and third place entries will take $5,000 and $3,000, respectively, with a People’s Choice award (along with a $3,000 cash prize) up for grabs following online voting.
Jesse Powell, CEO of Kraken, said in a statement:
“The teams must look at strengths and weaknesses of each technology and their use cases, adoption, project governance, developer and investor sentiment, historical performance and global regulatory issues. The complexity of this evaluation coupled with the tremendous upside potential for a correct bet is why we felt this was the perfect question for this challenge."
Some of the schools involved in the contest include Rutgers Business School, John Hopkins Carey Business School and Worcester Polytechnic Institute, among others. Entry videos can be found here.
The winners are expected to be announced next month.
Disclosure: CoinDesk is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which has an ownership stake in Kraken. 
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Oct 22, 2016 at 16:05 | Willy Woo
Cryptocurrency Index Funds: Can They Beat Bitcoin's Returns?
An industry observer's simulations of cryptocurrency index funds suggest bitcoin is hard to beat.
Sep 5, 2016 at 14:01 | Michael del Castillo
Bank Veterans Raise $1.5 Million for Digital Asset Startup
Digital asset trading service Crypto Facilities has raised $1.5m in new funding.
May 2, 2016 at 16:01 | Jacob Donnelly
Everledger Plans Blockchain Database to Combat Art Fraud
Everledger has partnered with fine art database firm Vastari, aiming to use its blockchain platform to combat fraud within the art industry.
Apr 13, 2016 at 18:16 | Stan Higgins
Blockchain Investment Fund Seeks $100 Million from Major Banks
A new investment fund is seeking to raise as much as $100m over the next two years to fuel investments in the blockchain space.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.