Bitcoin, Fintech and the New President of the United States - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin, Fintech and the New President of the United States
The new President of the United States should have a fintech policy in place to ensure a competitive edge in the global economy. Read more...
Everyone agrees that the cryptocurrency technology is still in its nascent stages. At this stage, it is necessary for the digital currency industry to have a conducive atmosphere to further innovation. And such an atmosphere is feasible only if there is an understanding between the government and the cryptocurrency community.
With the US presidential elections around the corner, there is a sense of apprehension in the cryptocurrency industry regarding government policies under the new president. While the two contenders, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump continue to debate about various policies, they seem to have missed out one specific segment — the fintech sector.
A recent article published on Ripple Insights outlines the importance of fintech and cyber security knowledge for the presidential candidates. While the recent hacking incidents have already made the need for strong cybersecurity policies evident, the fintech sector remains craving for attention.
The potential of cryptocurrencies and their underlying blockchain technology has already been proven by the success of Bitcoin. Recognizing their disruptive nature,  conventional banking, and financial institutions have already started exploring its potential uses in their operations. However, if the new government fails to address the changing needs of the financial industry, then the United States may end up losing any competitive edge it might have in the global financial market.
London, Berlin, and Singapore are already emerging as the leading fintech hubs in the world. According to the article, in order to stay competitive, the United States under the new government should have a fintech advisor or an advisory board. The country should leverage upon the innovative minds in the Silicon Valley to create the Internet of Value, based on distributed ledger technology.
Such developments are expected to positively affect three key areas of economic development with,
increased access to new international markets for SMEs due to efficient cross-border payments systems.
the possibility of making high-velocity payments by corporates and new digital businesses, irrespective of transaction size.
These developments will benefit individuals, startups, small and medium businesses and huge corporations alike. By making seamless payments of any size to anywhere by anyone opens up a whole new world of possibilities, empowering the value creators, in turn adding value to the country’s economy.
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.