Banks Banking Bitcoin To Ward Off Hackers | PYMNTS.com
After the recent DDoS attack, London’s largest banks say they’re planning to build up an inventory of bitcoin to negotiate and pay off hackers who threaten to pull down their IT systems.
Bitcoin is the preferred currency because it cannot be traced and is highly valued by hackers and criminal groups.
Friday’s hack included infiltrating a whole host of high-traffic websites, like Netflix, GitHub, Twitter, Spotify, The New York Times, Crunchbase, Pinterest and many others. The list seems endless, with no industry being safe. The site DownDetector.com said the attack mostly affected the U.S. Experts say the reason for the disruption was that hackers unleashed a enormous distributed denial-of-service attack on the servers of Dyn, a major DNS host.
While Dyn may not be the subject of extortion demands, hackers have been threatening other businesses into paying them off with bitcoin in order to avoid risks of becoming the target of more or similar attacks.
And that’s why experts say certain banks are hoarding bitcoin in order to ready themselves in case of another attack. Technology and security expert Dr. Simon Moores said that companies are weighing the options, netting out on a decision that it may be cheaper to pay off the criminals than risk being attacked.
“Big companies are now starting to worry that an attack is no longer an information security issue; it’s a board and shareholder and customer confidence issue,” Moores told The Guardian. “What we are seeing is the weaponization of these [hacking] tools. It becomes a much broader issue than businesses ever anticipated.”
As for which banks have begun hoarding, that is not clear and may never be. Likely, other companies may take similar measures to plan for warding off future attacks.
RELATED ITEMS:BANKS, BITCOIN, DDOS, HACK, HACKERS, LONDON, NEWS
Ex-Expedia Exec Raises Funds For Secretive New Startup
Get our hottest stories delivered to your inbox.
Signup for the PYMNTS.com Newsletter to get updates on top stories and viral hits.
Financial Regulators Race To Get Reforms On The Books Before Inauguration Day
Why Insider Threats Are Hurting North American Businesses
Amidst New Cash Rules, Uber Debuts Indian Wedding Service
Online Fraud Expected To Grow 43 Percent This Holiday Season In The US
CFPB Sues Company That Scammed Lead Paint Poisioning Victims
Prime Is The Ticket For Amazon: Prime Tickets On The Way
India’s Axis Bank Joins Earthport In X-Border Payments
October Visa Data Shows Rise In EMV-Enabled Merchants
Amazon’s Brand Central Aimed At Ridding Counterfeiters From Marketplace
Monday Is Black Friday For Shipments This Holiday Season
The Seven Deadly Data Sins Of The 2016 Presidential Election
The 2016 Presidential Election And Banks’ Next Four Scary Years
What the Uber Driver Revolt Means for Payments
© 2016 What’s Next Media and Data Analytics, LLC