Report: President Trump Considers Bitcoin Skeptic Jamie Dimon for Treasury Job - CryptoCoinsNews
Report: President Trump Considers Bitcoin Skeptic Jamie Dimon for Treasury Job
S President-elect Donald Trump is, with the counsel of his transition team, in the process of putting together a list of individuals to form the incoming president’s cabinet and other prominent officials at the head of federal agencies. JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon is reportedly being considered for the job, a man who was once referred to Donald Trump as “the worst banker in the United States.”
According to Reuters and CNBC sources, Trump’s advisors have suggested Jamie Dimon for the position of the country’s treasury secretary. One member of Trump’s transition team reportedly contacted Dimon to guage his interest in the role.
President elect Donald Trump is reportedly considering JPMorgan chief Dimon for the big job.
If reports are indeed true, it would make for a notable pivot for Trump, who has repeatedly criticized Wall Street during his campaign trail in running for president. Offering Dimon the job would be even more remarkable, with Trump’s previously-expressed public opinion of the JPMorgan chief.
Speaking to Bloomberg in 2013, Trump said the following of Dimon, who was close to agreeing a multi-billion dollar settlement with the Justice Department over the bank’s civil litigation suit.
I don’t believe in settling cases. I’m not Jamie Dimon, who pays $13 billion to settle a case and then pays $11 billion to settle a case and who I think is the worst banker in the United States.
Dimon, who is a known Democrat, has frequently dismissed any talk of serving public office in the past during various events and conferences. Furthermore, one of the two CNBC sources with the scoop also added that Dimon has already stated that he wouldn’t be interested in the role.
Arguably the most well-known Wall Street executive, Dimon’s refusal to the job as treasury secretary – if true – would see the banker turn down a role that would see him play a principal role in all financial and economic matters relating to the government and the country’s economic policy. The secretary, as a part of the cabinet, will also have the ear of the President-elect Trump as his chief economic advisor.
Cryptocurrency enthusiasts will remember Dimon for his blunt skepticism of bitcoin, the most prominent and widely-used digital currency around.
In the past, Dimon has opined that Bitcoin was “a waste of time”, insisting that governments around the world will not let currencies – like bitcoin – flourish if it isn’t under their control. When asked about bitcoin earlier this year at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Dimon reiterated his views, stating that bitcoin “is going to go nowhere”.
While Dimon’s dismissals of bitcoin have been well documented, the JPMorgan executive has a different take on blockchain, bitcoin’s underlying technology. Noting that “blockchain is a technology which we have been studying,” Dimon further added that the innovation will be adopted if it proves to be cheap and secure.
It remains to be seen if Dimon changes tact and shows interest in the Treasury job, although it would be more prudent of the country’s foremost economic policy director to have an open-mind about cryptocurrencies that continue to perform outside the jurisdiction of governments. As one US federal prosecutor who is well-versed in the subject recently remarked, “the government realized bitcoin could not be shut down.”
Posted in: Banking, News, World Economics, World Politics Tagged in: Donald Trump, Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
NextDutch Police Warns Dark Web Marketplace Users: “You Have Our Attention”11/11/2016
PreviousChina’s Online Insurer ZhongAn Launches Blockchain and AI Incubator12/11/2016
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.