Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain episode 6 analyzes the future | TechCrunch
10TH ANNUAL CRUNCHIES AWARDSThe Finalists Have Been Announced Get Your Tickets Today
Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain episode 6 analyzes the future
Posted Oct 14, 2016 by Rebecca Friedman (@rebeccapf12)
The final episode of this six-part series explores the future implications of Bitcoin and blockchain technology. The episode describes the divide between Wall Street’s preferred closed use of the blockchain and Silicon Valley’s vision of an open system. Will the technology ever be integrated into our world’s mainstream economy? Whose vision will prevail, Wall Street or Silicon Valley?
This is the final episode of the series; check out the first five episodes here.
Tiny Device Allows You To Track Anything (it's Genius!)
Finally You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Bitcoin is a form of digital currency, created and held electronically. However, it is a currency not controlled by a central source. Bitcoins aren’t printed, like dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world, using software that solves mathematical problems. It is the first example of a growing category of money known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin …
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Facebook Builds a Censorship Tool | Crunch Report
Naspers sells Polish eBay rival Allegro to Permira consortium for $3.3B
CRM Berater (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
C++ Developer - Qt Product Development (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
Full Stack Engineer at FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
UI Engineering @ FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
Senior Backend Engineer @ MeetMe at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA, United States)
© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by