Bitcoin Price Watch; The Upside Continues! - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this morning.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
We asked for action in the bitcoin price, and it’s action we got. Things haven’t been this active on the intraday charts for months, and it finally looks like price might make its way through the elusive 700 mark near term. If it does, we expect a considerable upside momentum run as the shorts are squeezed out of the market and price gains on covering. Whatever happens, the action overnight gave us plenty to go at, and we managed to get in and out of the markets according to the rules of our intraday strategy on a number of occasions. Interestingly, and good from both a long term and a short term holding perspective (well, strictly speaking, neutral on the short term side of things, but let’s be optimistic) all entries were to the upside, and all took out the take profits quickly and easily.
So, with some solid gains in our pockets, and as we head into the penultimate European session of the week, let’s take a look at where we are right now, and what we expect from the bitcoin price near term.
As ever, before we get started, take a look at the chart below to get an idea of what happened overnight, and where we are looking to trade this morning.
As the chart shows, the range in focus for today is in term support to the downside at 690 flat, and in term resistance to the upside at 698. We could be a little more aggressive and go for 700 flat at the resistance side of things, but we may see a correction, so let’s play it safe for now.
If price breaks through resistance and closes above this level (waiting for the close is important here) then we will get in long towards 710. Conversely, a close below support will put us short towards 683.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
You'll can skip this Ad in 1 seconds...