Chinese bitcoin mining outfit builds huge data centre – TechEye
Chinese bitcoin mining outfit builds huge data centre
Posted on November 9, 2016 by Nick Farrell - Business, News
The Chinese bitcoin mining outfit Bitmain, is building a massive 45 building solar-powered data centre complex in China.
The complex will be the world’s third most powerful data centre and will operate primarily on wind and solar power. According to Bitmain the entire centre will be dedicated primarily to bitcoin mining and it plans to open source the centre’s detailed plans. Bitmain is hoping that this will improve data centre efficiency for bitcoin miners worldwide.
Jihan Wu, Co-CEO of Bitmain, said: “We have seen that most data centres in the mining industry are wasting considerable money or other resources.  We want to provide a more professional and cost-saving example to the industry.”
However the news was not exactly welcomed by the bitcoin mining community, many of whom are concerned with the increasing power of Chinese bitcoin mining pools driving the cryptocurrency market. One of the reasons they like cryptocurrency is that it is decentralised and if one country gets too much of the action it defeats the purpose.
Bitmain already controls an estimated 18.6 percent of hashpower worldwide, and many independent miners in the community expressed concern that controlling a massive data centre dedicated to mining bitcoin would give the company too much influence over bitcoin.
Bitmain said that it will not own all of the planned facility. “A majority is owned by other miners who can mine bitcoin or any altcoin with any hardware they prefer.”
The Bitmain facility was originally scheduled to be completed by the end of 2016, but the timeline may be extended due to an unusually cold winter in Xinjiang this year.
Chinese outfit LingLong has created an AI based assistant it has dubbed the DingDong which is making[...]
Intel puts in new planning application for Irish plant
Intel Ireland is lodging a fresh planning application with Kildare County Council for an estimated $[...]
American families stay at home and spend like crazy
Online spending by bargain hunters in the US has climbed to more than $1 billion as Americans stay h[...]
Far-right trolls have switched their focus from smearing Hillary Clinton and is now gunning for tech[...]
Microsoft gives its most successful program to Android and iOS
Software giant Microsoft has shared its most successful program to Android and iOS users. Since t[...]