Watch the trailer for our new series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin & The Blockchain’ | TechCrunch
10TH ANNUAL CRUNCHIES AWARDSThe Finalists Have Been Announced Get Your Tickets Today
Watch the trailer for our new series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin & The Blockchain’
Posted Oct 6, 2016 by Rebecca Friedman (@rebeccapf12)
What is bitcoin? What is the blockchain? How does it work? Who is behind it? Find the answer to all of these questions and more by tuning into the six-episode series Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin & the Blockchain.
The series features Nathaniel Popper, a New York Times reporter and the author of the book on which the series is based, along with various bitcoin developers, influencers and scholars tracing the history of bitcoin and analyzing its future.
The first episode examines the creation of bitcoin and the blockchain. Episode two looks at the global network of mines and miners that govern the bitcoin system. The third episode explores the controversy of how to deal with the flood of traffic to the network — whether it should be centralized through the blockchain or decentralized. Episode four details the rise of the digital currency and its increased acceptance into mainstream financial institutions. The fifth episode focuses on Ethereum, the public, decentralized bitcoin platform that could one day run the world as well as the effect of its recent hack. The final episode traces the battle lines between the Open Blockchain (Silicon Valley) and the Closed Blockchain (Wall Street) and how the blockchain is going to change the world.
This series is produced by TechCrunch and Stateless. The first two episodes air on 10/10 with the following episodes released daily that week. The series will be available in full on TechCrunch and on our YouTube channel. Check out the trailer below.
Tiny Device Allows You To Track Anything (it's Genius!)
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Bitcoin is a form of digital currency, created and held electronically. However, it is a currency not controlled by a central source. Bitcoins aren’t printed, like dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world, using software that solves mathematical problems. It is the first example of a growing category of money known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin …
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Facebook Builds a Censorship Tool | Crunch Report
CRM Berater (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
C++ Developer - Qt Product Development (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
Full Stack Engineer at FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
UI Engineering @ FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
Senior Backend Engineer @ MeetMe at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA, United States)
© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by