Bitcoin is Powering up the Gambling Industry - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
When Bitcoin first appeared the gambling industry was one of the industries that immediately started to adopt it. Since then, hundreds of online gambling sites have been popping out like mushrooms all of them using Bitcoin has its main business model.
The Bitcoin gambling landscape is expanding in a way that no one has ever predicted. Today this industry is already responsible for millions of Bitcoin transactions every day. The unregulated nature of Bitcoin has been instrumental in proliferating demand in this specific market. When Bitcoin first appeared the gambling industry was one of the industries that immediately started to adopt it. Since then, hundreds of online gambling sites have been popping out like mushrooms all of them using Bitcoin has its main business model.
Today, the Bitcoin gambling industry is teaming with activity. It is where you can find from the most regular casinos such as Bitcoin Games to the most original and exotic casino such as Dragon’s Tale.
The gambling industry is, in fact, the only one that has stood strong since Bitcoin first appeared, and even now casinos are expanding and accepting many other cryptocurrencies. Acceptance of the virtual currency means its value will go up, and this makes it lucrative for online gaming and betting businesses. The more value the currency has, the more profit a betting business is able to fetch from players. As such the gambling industry is already harnessing the full potential of digital currency.
Unlike other payment gateway platforms such as PayPal and other checkout processors that charge merchants upward of 5% per transaction and some fees, Bitcoin only charges merchants 1% of their transactions. Consumers, on the other hand, are absolved of any fees.
As Bitcoin continues to gain more grounds and recover as a virtual currency, the sports betting industry is also starting to embrace Bitcoin. While this remains to be seen, it is more than seen that digital currency can disrupt any online business.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
Nuno Menezes is a Portuguese Bitcoin Entrepreneur and a crypto currency’s enthusiast supporting the Bitcoin Portuguese Community. He is an Anthropologist and a Writer and his current field of work is virtual currencies. Complementing his Social Sciences Master degree with a Professional background in telecommunications along some experience in Computer Science, he intends to bring knowledge and understanding about the impact of crypto currencies in society. View all posts by Nuno Menezes
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.