SEC Seeks Additional Comment on Winklevoss Bitcoin ETF - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
SEC Seeks Additional Comment on Winklevoss Bitcoin ETF
Michael del Castillo (@DelRayMan) | Published on October 13, 2016 at 12:33 GMT
The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is seeking additional public feedback as it weighs whether to approve a bid to launch a bitcoin exchange traded fund (ETF) by investors Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss.
The decision to open up the process to more comment comes after the SEC said it was delaying its final decision on a request to list the ETF on the BATS Global Exchange. The Winklevoss brothers originally sought to list the ETF on the Nasdaq exchange, a request that dates back to 2013.
For now, the SEC says it wants feedback on the stability of bitcoin, the manner in which the trust will value the holdings, and any potential conflicts of interest between the custodian and bitcoin exchange Gemini, which is owned by the Winklevoss brothers.
SEC deputy secretary Robert Erret wrote in document:
"The Commission requests that interested persons provide written submissions of their views, data, and arguments with respect to the issues identified above, as well as any other concerns they may have with the proposal."
Commentators have 21 days from the publication of the SEC document in the Federal Register to formally enter their submissions. Rebuttals can be filed 35 days from that time, the agency said.
So, It Looks Like Ethereum is Going to Have to Fork Again...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 15, 2016 at 12:59 | Pete Rizzo
Bitcoin Exchange Gemini Adds APIs for Automated Traders
New York bitcoin exchange Gemini has announced a series of new API offerings aimed at automated traders.
Oct 19, 2016 at 01:10 | Pete Rizzo
Winklevoss Brothers Tap State Street for Key Bitcoin ETF Role
State Street has been tapped to help launch the first bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF).
Aug 25, 2016 at 14:21 | Michael del Castillo
Why the Winklevoss Brothers Are Still Waiting for a Bitcoin ETF
Confusion over deadlines may be leading to premature excitement about the Winklevoss Bitcoin ETF, a bitcoin investment vehicle awaiting SEC approval.
Jun 29, 2016 at 22:43 | Michael del Castillo
Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust Moves Filing to BATS Exchange
The Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust is no longer attempting to list on Nasdaq, according to an SEC document filed today.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.