CGBets Bitcoin Gaming Site Allows Players to Bet on Skills, Not Luck - NEWSBTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Dear Vox, Bitcoin is Changing the World Whether We See it or Not
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Downtrend Intact
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Showing Positive Signs
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Trend Bearish
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Buyers Make It?
ViaBTC Receives Mysterious 210 Bitcoin Deposit To Cloud Mining Address
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
CGBets Bitcoin Gaming Site Allows Players to Bet on Skills, Not Luck
Bitcoin Press Release: CGBets, a novel Bitcoin gaming platform allows users to wager and compete against real players to win Bitcoin based on their skills alone.
CGBets announces the launch of its one-of-a-kind Bitcoin-based gaming platform. The platform with few attractive games is different from any average Bitcoin gaming platform is multiple ways. Instead of gambling games where players try their luck to win a jackpot, the CGBets game platform offers skill, logic and strategy based games where winning and losing is decided solely by the players’ skills and intellectual abilities.
CGBets offers a safe and fun environment for the players to train, wager and win Bitcoin. The players on CGBets are always pitted against each other and never against the computer. This way, it is not the house but the best player who always wins. In other words, CGBets doesn’t really involve any kind of gambling.
This unique addition to the Bitcoin ecosystem also offers a “no deposit bonus promotion” giving 0.0003 BTC to all new players. Registered users who sends a request to support@cgbets.com are eligible and will receive their free BTC. Players can hold several accounts on CGBets but the bonus will only be given once to each player. The giveaway will continue until further notice. Please visit https://cgbets.com/news/ for the latest updates.
Registered users can immediately start winning BTCs with their stakes. They can choose to withdraw or transfer the winnings to their respective Bitcoin wallet at any time without restrictions.
“We provide high-quality games written in flash technology. We ensure optimum functionality of our gaming platform, guarantee secure, easy settlement and the withdrawal of winnings,”
CGBets currently has three games live on its platform, with a lot more lined up in the pipeline. The three skill based games include;
Basketball game – A game for two or more players where they are required to shoot the ball into the hoop to gain as many points as possible.
Go game – A two player logical board game whose invention can be traced back to a Chinese emperor’s son. The game, not yet solved by any algorithm can be played only by live participants.
Chess – A familiar two player game on a chequered board with 64 squares arranged in an 8×8 grid.
CGBets will be adding Duplicate Poker soon on the platform. Duplicate Poker is a variant of the Poker card game based on Texas Hold’em rules. It is more of a strategy game with no luck factor involved.
Each game has its own set of rules and game modes. Players can use trial mode to practice the game before participating in the real game involving actual bets.
Registered in Costa Rica, CGBets is one of the world’s leading gaming site offering well-known flash based skill and logical games. The platform ensures optimum functionality with guaranteed security, easy settlement, and withdrawal of winnings.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article do not represent the views of NewsBTC or any of its team members.  NewsBTC is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied in Sponsored Stories/Press Releases such as this one.
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.