Bitmarket.Eu Hack May Have a Link to LinkedIn and Dropbox Hacking Incidents - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitmarket.Eu Hack May Have a Link to LinkedIn and Dropbox Hacking Incidents
Bitmarket.eu hacking incident back on 2012 may have a connection to the LinkedIn and Dropbox hacks by Yevgeniy Nikulin. Read more...
For those who do not remember, Bitmarket.eu used to be a Bitcoin exchange run by two Polish developers. The developers, Maciej Trebacz and Pawel Makulski operated the exchange platform for about two years before it became a victim of a hacking incident. While Bitmarket.eu has been reduced to a cryptocurrency blog following the incident, the hacker who may have been responsible for its plight may soon be facing trial.
According to reports, a Russian national by the name Yevgeniy Nikulin may have been the person who broke into Bitmarket.eu back in 2012. The hacking incident may have led to a loss of over 20161 BTCs in total during that time, which is now worth over $13.8 Million. The report suggests that most of these losses were due to a security breach suffered by Bitcoinica, a Bitcoin-based online CFD trading service. Bitcoinica experienced two security breaches, once in 2011 resulting in a loss of 43000 BTCs and the second time in 2012 which led to a loss of 18000 BTCs.
The recent arrest of Nikulin in the Czech Republic and subsequent investigation has led the investigators to believe that he was responsible for not only hacking into Dropbox, Formspring, and LinkedIn but also for the theft of over 620 BTCs from Bitmarket.eu. While the number of Bitcoin stolen by Nikulin from Bitmarket is negligible compared to the total cumulative losses incurred by the platform, there is no indication at the moment about whether he had a role to play in the Bitcoinica hacking incidents as well.
Nikulin is said to have used the username “chinabig01” on LinkedIn and Dropbox. The same username and associated email address was used by Bitmarket.eu hacker as well, which has led the investigators to believe that all these hacks were the handiwork on the same person.
The updates on Bitcoin Talk show that a significant number of Bitmarket.eu users received a portion of their funds back. The Bitmarket.eu domain seems to have changed hands since then and the blog is currently being handled by someone called Lewis Nixon, a market analyst from Leicester, UK.
Ref: Softpedia | Bitcoin Talk | Image: NewsBTC
Gautham has an eye for anything new. He has been part of multiple startups and his current project focuses towards the social good sector. An entrepreneur, engineer and enthusiast (bitcoin, of course), he has been moonlighting as a writer for multiple publications and currently writes at NewsBTC. Find him on twitter as @gautham_n and on facebook at /gautham.nm View all posts by Gautham
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.