South Korea is Debating New Bitcoin Exchange Rules - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
South Korea is Debating New Bitcoin Exchange Rules
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on November 18, 2016 at 13:51 GMT
Financial regulators in South Korea have launched a new digital currency task force, with an eye to introduce new regulations for exchanges by early next year.
The Financial Services Commission convened the first meeting of its new task force this week, and the agency is planning additional hearings over the next few months. Other government bodies represented on the task force include the the Ministry of Strategy and Finance and the Financial Supervisory Service. The Bank of Korea, the country’s central bank, is also involved in the initiative.
Up for discussion, the FSC said, is which approach to take, citing examples like New York’s BitLicense and Japan’s recent regulatory moves as possible models. The European Union's work on regulation was also mentioned as a possible starting point.
In a translated announcement release, the agency cited “regulatory blind spots” as drivers for action, as well as money laundering and tax evasion risks.
The move comes as South Korea’s financial system has pursued varied applications of blockchain, particularly in the area of remittances.
In October, bitcoin startup Coinplug said that it was working with South Korea’s largest credit card company on a new identity solution that leverages the tech. The country’s sole securities exchange announced this week that it would open a private blockchain-based market.
Bitcoin Price Passes $750 as it Nears Five-Month High
Bitcoin Miners Can Now Signal Support for SegWit
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 16, 2016 at 17:00 | Corin Faife
The Korea Exchange, South Korea’s sole securities exchange operator, has launched a new service that utilizes blockchain technology.
Nov 8, 2016 at 21:42 | Stan Higgins
Gemini Expands Bitcoin and Ether Exchange to New Asian Markets
Digital currency exchange Gemini announced yesterday that it is opening its services to traders in South Korea and Japan.
Nov 2, 2016 at 11:55 | Michael del Castillo
One bitcoin entrepreneur isn't going down without a fight, following the promulgation of the BitLicense regulation and his company's subsequent…
Oct 26, 2016 at 14:43 | Stan Higgins
Singapore Central Bank Inks Blockchain Deals With India, South Korea
It’s been a busy week on the blockchain front for Singapore’s central bank.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.