Bitcoin Exhibit Hosted at the Smithsonian Museum - CryptoCoinsNews
Bitcoin has been included in its own section within the Value of Money exhibit showcase by the Numismatic Association at the Smithsonian Museum, for the National Numismatic Collection.
here’s a general description of cryptocurrencies, along with a picture of the exchange rate of bitcoin to/from USD for the year 2014, considered by mainstream media to be one of Bitcoin’s worst years.
Also featured are a physical copy of Bitcoin Magazine from 2014, a Square card reader, and a smartphone with the capability of managing a variety of digital currencies.
The exhibit includes 400 pieces, among them a 1933 Double Eagle, a personal check signed by President James Madison in 1813, credit cards, a Yap Island stone, a 1934 $100,000 note, in addition to bitcoin, and illustrates the development of the concept of money as it has changed and been interpreted while society has developed over the years.
A vault door marks the entrance to the exhibit hall, with the presentation beginning in July of 2015, with Jeff Garrett, executive of the American Numismatic Association, officiating the opening.
This exhibition delves into the National Numismatic Collection to explore the origins of money, new monetary technologies, the political and cultural messages money conveys, numismatic art and design, and the practice of collecting money. Visitors will uncover links between American history and global histories of exchange, cultural interaction, political change, and innovation.
A visitor to the exhibit posted pictures he’d taken to Imgur along with commenting on Reddit:
The Museum can be found at the National Mall at Constitution Avenue, N.W., between 12th and 14th Streets, Washington, D.C. Museum hours are 10:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Details for visiting tips and museum security policies can be reviewed here.
Posted in: Bitcoin in Media, Bitcoin Progress, News Tagged in: bitcoin exhibit, Numismatics, Smithsonian Museum, Value of Money
Dark Web Markets Are Running Black Friday Drug Sales
Ethereum Founding Member Gives Up on the DAO
Bitcoin is Consolidating and Ethereum Deserves Your Close Attention
EU Commission Launches Initiative to Boost FinTech and Blockchain Startups
Banking Blockchains Without Native Digital Assets are “Nonsense”, says Italian Tech Professor
PreviousICO Token Sale Bonanza Raises Legal, Moral and Practical Questions11/10/2016
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.