Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain episode 5 explores the most exciting blockchain innovation | TechCrunch
10TH ANNUAL CRUNCHIES AWARDSThe Finalists Have Been Announced Get Your Tickets Today
Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain episode 5 explores the most exciting blockchain innovation
Posted Oct 13, 2016 by Rebecca Friedman (@rebeccapf12)
In this episode we catch up with the founder of Ethereum, Vitalik Buterin, and dive into its implications in the world of cryptocurrency. Ethereum is considered the most exciting innovation using blockchain technology, as its use cases go beyond that of bitcoin and could eventually have more overarching effects on how we run the world. However, after a recent hack of its Decentralized Autonomous Organization, its future is uncertain.
You can check out the first four episodes of the series here. The final episode will be released on the site tomorrow.
Tiny Device Allows You To Track Anything (it's Genius!)
Finally You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Bitcoin is a form of digital currency, created and held electronically. However, it is a currency not controlled by a central source. Bitcoins aren’t printed, like dollars or euros – they’re produced by people, and increasingly businesses, running computers all around the world, using software that solves mathematical problems. It is the first example of a growing category of money known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin …
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Facebook Builds a Censorship Tool | Crunch Report
Verizon says Yahoo privacy breach had “material” impact 
CRM Berater (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
C++ Developer - Qt Product Development (m/f) at eGym GmbH (München, Deutschland)
Full Stack Engineer at FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
UI Engineering @ FactorChain at The Sourcery (Los Altos, CA, United States)
Senior Backend Engineer @ MeetMe at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA, United States)
© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by