Coin Palace Casino Awarded Seal of Approval | Online Casino Reports
Coin Palace Casino is the latest to gain the Seal of the Approval. This Bitcoin casino is highly rated, trustworthy, and offers many great games.
Another casino site has managed to attain Online Casino Reports’ (OCR) Seal of Approval. And the announcement is also notable for the fact that Coin Palace Casino is the first Bitcoin site to make the grade required for gaining approval. Bitcoin casinos have been rising gradually for some time now, and this is another major step towards the mainstream.
Gaining the OCR Seal of Approval is a difficult feat, as casino sites are required to prove their qualities over many months. Initially, Coin Palace Casino had to have an OCR review of four stars or higher. Meanwhile, Coin Palace also had to be online for 12 months or more, and be present on OCR for at least eight months.
OCR adopts a try-monthly process to ensure that eligible casinos are tested regularly to guarantee their quality. Among the areas evaluated are the sign-up process, general speed, mobile availability, gaming software, and other factors. This process is to make sure that casinos that receive the OCR Seal of Approval will continue to commit to quality.
OCR is also fully committed to ensuring that players are treated well, which is why casinos with the Seal of Approval are not allowed to have unresolved complaints on our site or any other portal. If there are complaints, a casino must then commit to resolving matters within a quick and clear timeframe.
The headline news is that Coin Palace is a Bitcoin casino, which means players have a highly secure payment system. After setting up a Bitcoin wallet, players can rapidly transfer deposits and withdrawals without submitting sensitive payment information.
Coin Palace is much more than just Bitcoin payments, as the site is powered by high-end software from developers such as Microgaming, SoftSwiss, BetSoft, NetEnt, Amatic Industries, and Ezugi. This group combines to give Coin Palace a diverse selection of games.
There are tables games, progressive jackpots, and video slots to enjoy across desktop or mobile devices. The slots are especially enticing thanks to the presence of titles like Blast Boom Bang, Satoshi’s Secret, The Ghouls, Mega Glam Life, and The Slotfather.
21 Dukes Casino Receives the OCR Seal Of Approval
Jackpot Capital Casino and Casino Extreme Receive The OCR Seal of Approval
Fruity Casa Casino Receives OCR Seal Of Approval
YES! I WANT TO KNOW ABOUT EXCLUSIVE BONUSES, PROMOTIONS, AND NEWS.