Samson Mow Claims Chinese Bitcoin Scalability Event Was A Marketing Stunt
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Samson Mow Claims Chinese Bitcoin Scalability Event Was A Marketing Stunt
While these words should always be taken with a grain of salt, a bigger problem is highlighted by this statement.
A recent bitcoin meetup in China was supposed to be about addressing scalability. This topic has been kicked around for quite some time now, yet there is no solution in sight. Samson Mow took to Twitter and explained how this meeting was not about on-chain scaling. Instead, he called it a “social and marketing event” organized by Bitmain.
There have always been different opinions on any event taking place discussing Bitcoin scalability. The majority of these meetings have been held behind closed doors, leaving the Bitcoin community none the wiser. When the Bitcoin On-chain Scaling Conference in China was announced, the tone was very different. In fact, anyone who wanted could attend the meeting
Was The Chinese Event About Scalability, Or Not?
According to Samson Mow, this meeting had nothing to do with scaling Bitcoin, though. He claims the event was nothing more than a marketing stunt by Bitmain. Apparently, the company wanted to promote their BTC.com mining pool, to increase the number of people mining there.
While these words should always be taken with a grain of salt, a bigger problem is highlighted by this statement. There are different agendas at work in the Bitcoin development space, which seem to take priority over addressing scalability these days. Not the way things should be handled by any means.
At the same time, it is doubtful this was a social event by any means. The venue for this conference seems genuine enough, although attendance figures may have been on the low side. Since there are very few reports from people who attended this meeting, it remains a bit unclear what was discussed precisely.
One thing is sure, though: Bitcoin scalability remains a key problem. Despite these issues plaguing the network for many months now, a solution remains elusive. Segregated Witness is undergoing active development, yet it may require a few more months before being released to the public. The bigger question is whether or not these delays will hurt the network as a whole.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.