Bitcoin Gets its Groove Back as Price Resistance Breaks - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitcoin Gets its Groove Back as Price Resistance Breaks
Charles Bovaird | Published on October 11, 2016 at 22:38 GMT
Bitcoin prices surged on 11th October amid what analysts say was a sharp change in market confidence.
The digital currency rose to as much as $639.97 at the time of report, roughly 4% higher than the daily low of $615.87. While not the largest of increases, however, the development followed several weeks where bitcoin traded in a tight range following the high-profile hack of Hong Kong exchange Bitfinex.
But the market is now recovering on stronger liquidity, Petar Zivkovski, director of operations for leveraged bitcoin trading platform Whaleclub, told CoinDesk.
After experiencing this period of sideways trading, bitcoin markets have "broken to the upside," bitcoin trader BTC VIX confirmed.
This break past resistance took place at a time when traders are bullish about bitcoin, a development which is supported by Whaleclub data. Figures provided by the investment platform reveal that the market's speculative positions have been more than 80% long since 21st September.
"The overwhelming majority of traders on Whaleclub are long," said Zivkovkski.
He added that he's seen a noticeable increase in buy-side liquidity, something he sees as a positive should the news cycle continue to provide support.
"This rise is perhaps a testament to a return to stronger confidence."
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 19, 2016 at 15:25 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Breaches $750 But Struggles to Set New 2016 High
Bitcoin prices repeatedly breached $750 during the week through 18th November as traders responded to macroeconomic uncertainty.
Nov 18, 2016 at 13:25 | Pete Rizzo
Bitcoin Price Passes $750 as it Nears Five-Month High
The price of bitcoin is now trading above $750, its highest total in nearly five months.
Nov 16, 2016 at 13:30 | Pete Rizzo
The Price of Bitcoin Just Jumped $30 in One Hour
The price of bitcoin rose nearly $30 over the course of one hour today, rising to a high of $740 as the price continued to flirt with annual highs.
Nov 12, 2016 at 16:19 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Tests 2016 Highs as Investors Seek Privacy
Cryptocurrencies experienced notable volatility in October, with bitcoin enjoying gains while Monero, ether and ether classic all suffered declines.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.