Bitcoin Startup Execs Join Uphold Team - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Stan Higgins (@mpmcsweeney) | Published on October 20, 2016 at 13:21 GMT
Two bitcoin startup executives have joined the leadership team for Uphold, the digital money platform.
Bitnet CEO and co-founder John McDonnell and chief data architect Jiri Novak will become part of a new offering called Uphold Merchant Services, which will aim to provide payment and financing services to businesses that use the Uphold platform. Bitnet was acquired as part of the deal.
The company, formerly known as Bitreserve, was founded by CNET founder Halsey Minor and formally launched in late 2014. The platform later rebranded as Uphold.
McDonnell and Novak join the startup months after Japanese e-commerce firm Rakuten acquired Bitnet's assets. Former Bitnet employees Fergal Downey and Stephen McNamara would go on to become part of a new blockchain lab founded by Rakuten, using the company's assets to kickstart that effort.
McDonnell, who will serve as CEO of Uphold Merchant Services, said in a statement:
“Uphold is uniquely positioned as the first ‘cloud-based’ financial services platform that leverages the operating efficiencies of blockchain technology while providing access to the legacy bank and payment networks."
The announcement comes two years after Bitnet announced that it had raised $14.5m in a Series A funding round. That round, led by Highland Capital Partners, notably included participation from Rakuten, and set the stage for the e-commerce company's eventual acceptance of bitcoin payments.
Disclosure: CoinDesk is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which has an ownership stake in Bitnet. 
Global Banks Test Ripple's Digital Currency in New...
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Aug 18, 2016 at 17:06 | Stan Higgins
Rakuten Acquires Bitcoin Startup Team for Blockchain Lab Launch
Japanese e-commerce firm Rakuten has acqui-hired bitcoin startup Bitnet as part of a bid to staff its new blockchain development lab in the UK.
Jul 16, 2015 at 10:00 | Yessi Bello Perez
Bitnet Launches 'Instant Approval' Tool for Bitcoin Merchants
Bitnet has launched a new service which reduces the delays faced by merchants accepting bitcoin as they wait for transactions to be confirmed.
Consensus 2015: What the Internet Can Teach Blockchain Innovators
A pioneer in internet security will discuss lessons for digital currencies in the adoption of a protocol as a technical standard.
Apr 8, 2015 at 22:05 | Pete Rizzo
Payments VP: One Thing Stands Between Bitcoin and Mass Adoption
CoinDesk speaks to CardinalCommerce VP Alasdair Rambaud on the current state of merchant adoption and why bitcoin is still competitive in e-commerce.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.