Bitcoin price skyrockets after Trump win | INQUIRER.net
After a long run of stability, Bitcoin suddenly jumps in value after the results of the US presidential elections. Image CoinDesk
Donald Trump’s election win sent shockwaves to markets around the world. And not just in traditional markets but also in the cryptocurrency world where the Bitcoin price skyrocketed.
At $738, the cryptocurrency rose around 3% from an earlier $708 mark overnight. However, the jump did not happen to other forms of digital money, reports Fortune.
Another form of cryptocurrency like Ethereum and Ripple, which are the second- and third-biggest in the market have gone down by 2% and 1% respectively, according to a Coinmarketcap report.
Bitcoin’s jump in market value is acting as a vindication that it is a haven in times of market volatility. The cryptocurrency has also enjoyed a long period of relative stability in the second half of 2016. Yet, despite the positive trend, its current value is still far from the all-time high of $1,200 that it experienced back in 2013. Alfred Bayle
Alleged killers of ‘drug lord’ Espinosa’s ex-wife shot dead in Cebu City
BIR files P144.49-million tax evasion case vs. ‘self-made’ billionaire
Disgruntled gamer ‘likely’ behind October US hacking — expert
Scientists turn to dogs to help detect breast cancer
Mini "Pepper" robots start new jobs in Taiwan
Google takes on rivals with Pixel phone, new hardware
Morales describes ‘trying times’ amid Marcos burial, disrespect for rights
Thousands turn up for anti-Marcos protest at Luneta amid rains
Speaker won’t let go of De Lima, presses contempt charge
Disclaimer: Comments do not represent the views of INQUIRER.net. We reserve the right to exclude comments which are inconsistent with our editorial standards. FULL DISCLAIMER
Reddit CEO Caught Secretly Editing User Comments, Chatlogs Leaked
The US needs paid family leave -- for the sake of its future
The teen behind the drone gun now has a drone-mounted flamethrower
Jill Stein just raised the $2.5 million needed for an election recount in three swing...
© Copyright 1997-2016 INQUIRER.net | All Rights Reserved