What Is Zcash? By Prableen Bajpai, CFA (ICFAI) | November 10, 2016 — 4:40 AM EST
Zcash is the latest kid on the block of cryptocurrencies – a wave ushered by bitcoin back in 2008. Over the years, many alternative cryptocurrencies called altcoins have been launched. Following the success of bitcoin, these have grown to over 700 in number. Most of these versions have tried to come up with some competitive advantages vis-à-vis bitcoin, and while few have seen interest, many operate with a small market capitalization, volumes and circulation.
Enter Zcash, a decentralized and open-source cryptocurrency, which looks promising. “If Bitcoin is like http for money, Zcash is https," is how it defines itself. Zcash offers privacy and selective transparency of transactions. Thus like https, Zcash claims to provide extra security or privacy where all transactions are recorded and published on a blockchain, but details such as the sender, recipient, and amount remain private. (See also, The Future Of Cryptocurrency)
Zooko Wilcox, Founder and CEO of Zcash, told Investopedia, “Zcash is a new blockchain and cryptocurrency which allows private transactions (and generally private data) in a public blockchain. This allows businesses, consumers, and new apps to control who gets to see the details of their transactions, even while using a global, permission-less blockchain.”
Zcash offers its users the choice of ‘shielded’ transactions, which allow for content to be encrypted using advanced cryptographic technique or zero-knowledge proof construction called a zk-SNARK developed by its team. These constructions ensure validity of transactions as well as secure ledger of balances without giving out any other information (such as parties or amount involved). Thus Zcash offers an added feature over bitcoin, while ensuring that nobody is cheating or stealing. (See also, The Top 5 Investors Investing in Bitcoin)
Earlier this year, the Zcash Electric Coin Company raised a total of $2 million in exchange for equity in the company from seventeen investors: Aaron Grieshaber, Branson Bollinger, Maple Ventures (Amir Chetrit and Steven Nerayoff), Brian Cartmell, Vlad Zamfir, Roger Ver, Digital Currency Group, Barry Silbert, Charles Songhurst, Fenbushi, Shapeshift, Erik Voorhees, David Lee Kuo Chuen, Fred Ehrsam, Sebastian Serrano, and Li Xiaolai.
Investors now own 16.4% of the company. According to Zcash, the Founders' Reward is 10% of the total long-run monetary base of 21 million coins, while the remaining 90% of the Zcash monetary base goes to miners. Approximately 131,250 Zcash coins were distributed among investors at a price of $15.24 per coin against the $2 million raised during the summer round of funding.
The Zcash blockchain went live on October 28, 2016 and is currently hovering around $226.
5 Ways to Invest in the Blockchain Boom
Blockchain technology is one of the hottest trends in the finance scene, with the potential to completely transform traditional business models.
As Bitcoin and currencies like it grow in popularity, advisors should have a good grasp on how to explain them to clients. Here's a primer.
Discover the market dynamics behind bitcoin's latest price recovery in late 2015 and why its underlying value is expected to remain strong in 2016.
The Rise And Fall And Rise Of Bitcoin
A look at the reasons behind the recent spectacular surge in bitcoin prices.
Bitcoin is the world's leading digital cryptocurrency. Discover who is investing in bitcoin, which segments they are investing in, and why.
Can Blockchain and Bitcoin Help the World's Poorest
Bitcoin and blockchain is thought to have practical functionality in various industries, but can it alleviate poverty?
The bitcoin blockchain enables the application of decentralized public ledgers for purposes other than digital currencies referred to as Bitcoin 2.0 or sometimes more generally "crypto 2.0.”
Bitcoin, which may be the future of money, is a digital currency with over $9 billion in circulation. Here are six books to learn more about bitcoin.
A look at the forces behind the recent surge in Bitcoin price and how it stands entering 2016.
Why 2016 Might Be the Year for the First Bitcoin Unicorn 
Many people believe that 2016 could be the year that the first bitcoin company with a value of more than $1 billion will emerge.
DICTIONARY: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q
Articles Terms Videos Guides Slideshows FAQs Calculators Chart Advisor Stock Analysis Stock Simulator FXtrader Exam Prep Quizzer Net Worth Calculator
About Us Advertise With Us Write For Us Contact Us Careers
© 2016, Investopedia, LLC. Feedback All Rights Reserved Terms Of Use Privacy Policy