Bitcoin prices broke out again on Wednesday, as yuan instability in China and rupee restrictions in India continued to lend support to the cryptocurrency market.
The BTC/USD exchange rate surged 3.9% to $739.54 at 7:54 am ET, according to CoinDesk. The pair is on track for its highest settlement since November 2, when prices broke above $740.
Bitcoin has seen growing demand in emerging markets, as investors look to diversify away from volatile or uncertain asset classes. Chinese investors looking to store their assets outside the People’s Republic have been pouring into the cryptocurrency all year long in order to steer clear yuan volatility.
Recently, rupee restrictions in India have also boosted demand for bitcoin. India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently decided to remove 500 and 100 rupee notes from circulation, sparking widespread risk aversion in the domestic market. The government said the efforts were an attempt to stem “black money” flows into the economy.
Other signs of growing appetite for cryptocurrency include downloads of the bitcoin mobile app Zebpay, which recently passed 100,000 downloads.
The gains on Wednesday came despite continued strength for the US dollar, which is currently trading at more than one-year highs against a basket of other major fiat currencies. The US currency is likely to extend its gains further on growing expectations the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates next month for the first time in a year. The US dollar index was last seen trading at 100.40, up 0.1% from the previous close.
EconomicCalendar.com provides the latest economic news and financial events that move the market.
U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) Under Pressure in Today’s Trading
Sam Bourgi is a financial market analyst for economiccalendar.com. He has more than six years of progressive experience in economic and financial analysis, research consulting and sectoral analysis. As a published author in government, peer-reviewed, online and industry sources, he has developed a fundamental approach to the financial markets with a broad focus on stock indices, commodities and the technology sector. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Windsor and Master’s degree from McMaster University.
Light Sweet Crude Oil Futures,D 47.48 -0.01 -0.02%
Gold Prices End at More Than Nine-Month Lows
WTI Oil Prices Decline Sharply on OPEC Deal Uncertainty
DJIA Today: Dow Futures Record New Highs on Black Friday
Oil Futures Moves Sharply Lower Over OPEC Concerns
Thanksgiving Cheer Spreads to Wall Street as S&P 500 Futures Extend Record
Nasdaq Composite Index Forms Intra-Day & Closing Record High on Black Friday
Trading forex, equities, CFDs, or other assets carries financial risk. You may lose your initial deposit or more. The information on this website is provided for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as financial advice. Trading is risky. Always consult with an independent financial adviser to give you trading advice tailored to your individual circumstances. View the Full Disclaimer Here
U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) Powers Higher, Testing Key Resistance