A cryptocurrency exchange service is taking advantage of biometrics to foster a sense of security among users.
The service, Coinbase, facilitates the trade of the Bitcoin and Ethereum digital currencies. The company says that because the value of these currencies is determined by the free online market, there’s a heightened risk of fraud, and as such it sought a more reliable means of ensuring that users are who they say they are, particularly to help ensure that its service complies with Know Your Customer requirements across the 33 countries in which it operates.
To that end, it has sought the help of Jumio, whose Netverify platform is designed to use facial recognition to match smartphone and PC users against their ID documents. Users confirm their identities via live video feed, which Jumio says is designed to pick up “even the slightest facial movement” in order to ensure liveness detection, according to a statement from the company.
With so many traditional financial services organizations now embracing biometric technology to verify customers’ identities for online transactions, it only makes sense that a cryptocurrency exchange service would do the same.
Jumio’s Mobile ID Verification Platform Gets Facial Recognition
Tags: biometrics, Bitcoin, Coinbase, cryptocurrency, Ethereum, facial recognition, Financial, Jumio, know your customer
Northstar uses their industry knowledge to recruit top talent for Biometric and Identity Management companies.
ZKTeco is one of the leading providers of security and time management solutions in the world. We provide one-stop service to global business partners and customers.
Princeton Identity develops innovative technologies, software and physical hardware solutions designed to verify and manage individuals’ identities for a wide range of physical security and data access applications.
Sensory Inc. creates a safer and superior user experience through vision and voice technologies. Sensory’s TrulySecure is changing the authentication landscape with highly accurate voice and facial biometric fusion. combine security with convenience to enhance operations.
Mobile ID World is here to bring you the latest in mobile authentication solutions and application providers. Our company is dedicated to providing users with the best content and cutting edge information on technology, news, and mobile solutions for your mobile identity management needs.
Audyssey eVR Can Hear Voice Commands From 19 Feet Away
Zwipe SVP to Speak Against Passwords at Trustech 2016
FlexEnable To Show Off Flexible Fingerprint Sensor at Trustech
Temple Priests Resist Biometric Attendance Tracking in India
Sticker Uses False Fingerprint For Gloved iPhone Access
all-day The 1st Biometrics Middle East @ Grosvenor House
all-day Homeland Security Expo 2016, Vie... @ ICE Hanoi