NetBet first UK-licensed site to add Bitcoin payment option
NetBet first UK-licensed site to add Bitcoin payment option
TAGS: APPLE PAY, BITCOIN, BITPAY, NETBET, SKY BETTING AND GAMING
Online betting operator NetBet has become the first UK-licensed online gambling operator to offer Bitcoin payment options to UK punters.
On Monday, Bitcoin payment service provider Bitpay announced that it had helped NetBet become the first online gambling operator licensed by the UK Gambling Commission (UKGC) to offer Bitcoin deposit and withdrawal options to its online sports betting and casino customers.
Bitpay, which claims to be the world’s largest Bitcoin payment processor, says NetBet opted to include Bitcoin payment options to better serve the UK’s growing digital currency user base and to offer customers the peace of mind that comes with freedom from online payment fraud. Given the relative novelty of Bitcoin in the UK online gambling marketplace, Bitpay says it worked closely with NetBet to ensure its new payment option met all UKGC requirements.
In August, the UKGC updated its License Conditions and Codes of Practice (LCCP) and reminded licensees to ensure they were implementing appropriate policies and procedures concerning the usage of cash and cash equivalents, which included the UKGC’s first reference to “digital currencies” under this category.
The UKGC later sought to downplay the suggestion that its newfound acceptance of Bitcoin was anything new, saying only that it was reminding its licensees that they needed to ensure proper anti-money laundering and social responsibility obligations regardless of what currencies they accepted.
Meanwhile, UKGC-licensee Sky Betting & Gaming has blazed its own technological trail by adding Apple Pay to its list of approved deposit methods. eGaming Review reported that Apple Pay had been added to Sky Bet, Vegas Casino and Bingo apps earlier this month.
The new Apple Pay option is available to Sky Bet players who have an iPhone 6 or higher, iPad pro, iPad Air 2 or Apple Watch. Deposits are instant but withdrawals take 3-5 days and can only be made to the bank card registered to a customer’s account (and currently only Visa cards are accepted).
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
TAGS: 500.COM, CHINA, QUFAN INTERNET TECHNOLOGY INC, SOCIAL GAMING, SPORTS LOTTERY
Chinese online sports lottery operator 500.com has taken a controlling stake in a social poker business in an attempt to diversify its currently non-existent revenue stream.
On Friday, 500.com announced that it had taken a 51% stake in Qufan Internet Technology Inc. and Shenzhen Qufan Internet Technology Co. Ltd, which collectively operate a mobile social poker platform.
500.com says the transaction, which will cost RMB 110.5m (US $16m), is subject to certain unspecified conditions. The company didn’t offer any guidance for what type of boost this acquisition might provide to 500.com’s bottom line.
The Nasdaq-listed 500.com is desperate to show investors some capacity to generate revenue, having now gone six straight quarters without a single penny from online lottery operations following Beijing’s March 2015 decision to ‘temporarily’ suspend online sales after uncovering widespread fraud by provincial lottery administrators.
Investors will likely be hoping 500.com’s latest acquisition proves more permanent that its purchase last December of Zhejiang Shangmeng Technology Limited Company, which operates the Sumpay.cn online payment processor. 500.com sold the company in May, and while it realized a tidy profit on the quick turnaround, it didn’t inspire investor confidence in 500.com’s long-term prospects.
Beijing has been typically cryptic regarding when the 20-months-and-counting ‘temporary’ online suspension might be lifted. In May, five government ministries issued a joint notice detailing steps that needed to be taken in order to ensure future online activity would be property scrutinized, but the government has yet to take any demonstrable public action toward achieving those aims.
500.com isn’t alone in eyeing social gaming as a diversification lifeline. Casino and slots operator Entertainment Gaming Asia has been promising to unveil its new ‘Pan-Asian’ social casino platform since March. Earlier this month, the company reported that it was still “testing the platform in certain markets to assess its potential as a provider to long-term earnings.’
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
Bitcoin bounces back to $745 as Chinese yuan drops to 8-year low
Trump adds bitcoin enthusiast Peter Thiel to transition team
The CalvinAyre.com media group is based in Antigua in the West Indies with teams in London, Manila and Vancouver covering the global gambling industry.
Along with ensuring fair coverage of the gambling industry we highlight the great work of the Calvin Ayre Foundation.