How Iceland's Pirate Party Could Pave the Way for Bitcoin - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
How Iceland’s Pirate Party Could Pave the Way for Bitcoin
The Pirate Party in Iceland is not a team of seafarers with parrots on their shoulders scouring for treasure, but rather a radical political unit poised to take power in Iceland.
The group was founded about four years ago by a team of alleged hackers and activists; it rose to fame the following year to capture nearly five percent (three seats) of the Icelandic parliament. Among the party’s bullets include a favor of democracy, government transparency, the legalization of drug activity, and offering Edward Snowden a place to stay (just in case he ever gets tired of Moscow).
The Pirates, as they’ve been dubbed, now face the prospect of an expanded future this coming Saturday in a new election that if won, could earn the party an additional 18 to 20 seats in the 63-seat national parliament. Group leader Birgitta Jonsdottir explains:
“People in Iceland are sick of corruption and nepotism… We do not define ourselves as left or right, but rather as a party that focuses on the systems. In other words, we consider ourselves hackers – so to speak – of our current outdated systems of government.”
In their push for a democratic society, the Pirates could actually pave the way for bitcoin and digital currency in Icelandic society. The country already has a history with virtual money considering its attempts to implement Auroracoin, but the country has also shown a large disdain for financial corruption in Iceland dating as far back as the Great Recession (the prime minister’s involvement in the Panama Papers scandal last April didn’t help much either).
The nation is often touted as one that could potentially leave central banking behind permanently given the dirt that’s been dug up since 2008. Should this occur, bitcoin and related digital currencies could finally have their day in the spotlight. The country recently opened its first cryptocurrency exchange, and Iceland may be on its way to becoming the first major country to accept bitcoin as a national currency.
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.