Icelandic Pirate Party Can Become Biggest Party On October 29
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Icelandic Pirate Party Can Become Biggest Party On October 29
Iceland’s elections will take place on October 29, which will be an important day in history for the nation. Assuming the Pirate Party becomes the biggest party, they will need to create a coalition.
Things are getting very exciting over in Iceland, where the local Pirate Party is gaining a lot of momentum for the upcoming elections. What makes this group of like-minded individuals so impressive is their favor for Bitcoin as a payment method. They also want to grant Asylum to Edward Snowden, and clean up the corruption in the country.
Iceland is due for new governmental elections very soon. The Pirate Party is gaining a lot of traction as these elections draw closer. Their “us against the establishment” attitude has won over quite a few souls already. Bitcoin users have taken a liking to the party as well since they are very vocal about using cryptocurrency as an official payment method.
Things Are Looking Good For The Private Party
At the same time, Iceland has been cleaning house where the bankers are concerned. Several people have been arrested and are awaiting trial for their fraudulent schemes. An exciting development, as the banking system is under pressure from all sides right now. All of this is playing into the hands of Bitcoin enthusiasts as well.
Although things are looking quite positive for the Pirate Party right now, they are not planning to do anything dramatic. While they have a clear agenda to end corruption and push bitcoin adoption, nothing out of the ordinary is part of their plans right now. Granting asylum to Edward Snowden is perhaps their biggest selling point, as many people feel he should live in freedom.
What they will do is continue with the lifting of capital control. That doesn’t mean the financial sector will undergo dramatic changes, though. Stabilizing the Icelandic economy is the top priority for any political party right now. The Pirate Party can bring some much-needed political change, although they should not rush into things either.
Iceland’s elections will take place on October 29, which will be an important day in history for the nation. Assuming the Pirate Party becomes the biggest party, they will need to create a coalition. Unlike what some people would expect, party leader Jonsdottir will not be the next prime minister. She would rather become the speaker of the house.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.