Overstock Reveals Latest Effort Within the Bitcoin Space | Equities.com
This Week in Emerging Growth: Dow Jones Closes Over 19,000, Can Now Drink in Canada
Overstock Reveals Latest Effort Within the Bitcoin Space
Destiny A. Lopez Follow | Monday, 07 November 2016 12:07 (EST)
Overstock (OSTK), an online retailer, revealed a major development earlier this month. Announced November 1, the company’s subsidiary majority-owned fintech subsidiary, t0, has built the world’s first trading portal for the exchange of securities on blockchain technology. Reaching a new milestone in its efforts to merge Wall Street and bitcoin, as reported by Investopedia, Overstock’s board of directors has approved a non-transferable rights offering, allowing its stockholders to purchase shares of its preferred stock, including preferred shares to be issued and traded exclusively on a registered alternative trading system using the t0 issuance and trading platform.
For nearly twenty years, the Salt Lake City-based company has offered a broad range of household and personal products at discounted prices. In 2014, Forbes featured the company in its list of the Top 100 Most Trustworthy Companies.
Offering a variety of products of both discount brand and non-brand name merchandise, Overstock provides deep discounts on, among others, electronics, home goods, fashion and apparel, and kitchenware.
Furthermore, the company has seen some impressive movement on the market in recent days, following the release of its Q3 2016 financial results.
According to an official news release, highlights of the report include:
Q3 revenue totaling $441.6M, a 13% increase when compared to Q3 2015 data.
Q3 gross profit margin totaling $79.7M, a 10% increase when compared to Q3 2015 data.
"The retail business is re-accelerating and is fundamentally sound," said Patrick M. Byrne, founder and CEO of Overstock. "It had a pre-tax loss of ($0.9) million in Q3, which included $3.9 million of impairment and bad debt expense related to an international minority investment. Our Medici business cost us $3.0 million pre-tax this quarter, but that was well worth it as we achieve real progress in our blockchain and fintech initiatives that others have yet to demonstrate."
Now, one might ask why Overstock has taken an interest in Bitcoin. Well, since we are on the topic of its CEO, Byrne has, over the years, voiced his support and enthusiasm regarding bitcoin. In 2014, Overstock began accepting Bitcoin as payment, making it one of the largest online retailers to accept the cryptocurrency.
With its recent development within the cryptocurrency space, the investment community looks forward to future developments from the company regarding its efforts within this space. “This is the culmination of over two years of true innovation and hard work,” said Byrne. “Through this public issuance of blockchain-based securities the history of capital markets is entering a new era, the era of blockchain-based securities.”
DISCLOSURE: The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors, and do not represent the views of equities.com. Readers should not consider statements made by the author as formal recommendations and should consult their financial advisor before making any investment decisions. To read our full disclosure, please go to: http://www.equities.com/disclaimer
 Follow OSTK Overstock.com Inc. 17.95 0.40 2.28 24,948
You have to be logged in to leave a comment.
Take me to log in Don't have an account?
Cuba's Fidel Castro, who defied US for 50 years, has died
Castro’s legacy: how the revolutionary inspired and appalled the world
Why Are These Super Cute Dog Breeds So Unpopular?
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple Solution
The Ultimate Way to Get Cheap Hotel Rooms
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
Be Careful When Traveling to These Dangerous Countries
Grepolis: Are you ready to conquer Ancient Greece? Already 35 million players!
MGX Minerals‘ (XMG): Pilot Plant for Rapid Production of Lithium on Tap
Virtual Reality is the Real Deal, and Canada's Leading the Way
Keek Inc. (KEEKF) is disrupting Global e-Commerce with new Offer Box Tech
Agritek (AGTK): Unique Patent Pending for Infused Hemp Oil CBD Gum
Aftermaster Begins Production of its Highly Anticipated Aftermaster Pro
How Retirement Investors Should Handle Bonds and Rising Interest Rates
Viridian Cannabis Deal Tracker for the Week Ended 11/11/2016
The Post-Election Crash of Bonds Increases Risk for the Crash of Stocks
Bulls Gobble Up Stocks On Shortened Holiday Week
VidAngel Boasts the Fastest Reg A+ Raise So Far
The Social Commerce Unicorn That Could Ignite Facebook's Global ARPU Growth
GSV Capital (GSVC) Received a STRONG BUY Rating for Three Reasons
Trump Brings Small Company Tailwinds, Big Company Headwinds
Financial Myths: It’s Better to Light a Candle Than Curse the Darkness, Part III
As Sam Sees It: A ‘Trump Bump’ Breather Could Create a Buying Opportunity
Altair Resources Inc, formerly Altair Gold Inc acquires, explores and develops mineral properties in Canada. The Company is in the process of exploring its mineral properties.
Cloudera offers enterprises a new data platform built on the Apache Hadoop open-source software package. Hadoop is a data-management platform that can consolidate data in a single repository for comprehensive…
Initial State is an Internet of Things (IoT) data analytics & data management platform company. We turn sensor and event data into information that matters by making it easy to…
* All dates and time are being displayed in Eastern Standard Time (EST).