The Full Lineup for Scaling Bitcoin is Now Available - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
The Full Lineup for Scaling Bitcoin is Now Available
Pete Rizzo (@pete_rizzo_) | Published on October 3, 2016 at 20:54 GMT
The lineup for the third edition of the bitcoin developer conference Scaling Bitcoin is now available.
Released today, the lineup features a heavy emphasis on talks devoted to scaling, or proposed improvements that would boost the transaction capacity of the bitcoin protocol. Planned talks include "Sidechain Scaling" by Bloq’s Paul Sztorc and "Progress on Scaling via Client-Side Validation" by developer Peter Todd.
The event is scheduled to be held from 8th to 9th October in Milan, Italy, at Politecnico di Milano.
The full program is divided into six sections including fungibility, community, Lightning, Scalability on Top, Implementation and Small Changes, and Breaking the Chain.
Why CGI Doubled Down on Ripple's Distributed Ledger Tech
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 18, 2016 at 14:14 | Alyssa Hertig
Bitcoin Miners Can Now Signal Support for SegWit
If they so choose, miners can now safely signal their support for a major bitcoin update.
Nov 12, 2016 at 15:30 | Alyssa Hertig
What's Left Before Bitcoin's Lightning Network Goes Live
There aren't many steps left before bitcoin's Lightning Network will be finished — or at least an early version of it.
Nov 10, 2016 at 16:45 | Alyssa Hertig
How Two New Sidechains Proposals Could Change Bitcoin's DNA
Work on bitcoin sidechains – long thought to be one of the best ways to improve the functionality of the network – is advancing. Here's how.
Nov 6, 2016 at 14:25 | Eric Mu
China's Bitcoin Miners See Profit in a Bigger-Block Blockchain
A bitcoin mining conference held by one of the network's largest miners saw what some have labeled an unscientific discussion of scaling the network.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.