Leading Korean bank plans to launch bitcoin remittance service in December - EconoTimes
FxWirePro: DASH/ USDT faces strong resistance at 21- day MA, good to sell on rallies
BTC/SGD faces strong support at 23.6% fibo, good to buy on dips
BTC/GBP takes support at 21-DMA, break below targets 550
FxWirePro: ETH/EUR faces strong support 8 level, good to sell on rallies
Leading Korean bank plans to launch bitcoin remittance service in December
Shinhan Bank, a leading financial institution based in Seoul, has announced that it will be offering bitcoin remittance services for the Korea-China corridor.
Brave New Coin reported that this marks the first time that a bitcoin value transfer system has been announced by a major bank. Powered by Streami, the new service would go live in December.
Spread across 140 overseas networks in 19 countries, Shinhan currently has assets of more than 285 trillion Korean won (US$251 billion). Moreover, the bank has over 8,531 employees at 723 branches and has won several prestigious awards in the Asian banking sector, including Best retail bank in 2015.
Streami is a Seoul-based startup which describes itself as “Blockchain remittance middleware and infra provider for financial service providers”. Launched last year, the company partners with trusted market makers and various value-transfer networks to ensure secure, fast and cheap cross-border remittance.
Shinhan Bank invested 500 million Korean won in Streami through a direct stock purchase, after the startup won an incubator program early in 2015, run by Shinhan’s Future Lab. In addition, the company also raised a further US$2 million in seed funding in December 2015, drawing support from Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Data Systems, ICB, Bluepoint Partners, the Digital Currency Group and Fenbushi Capital.
While the company was launched to specifically target the Korean-Chinese remittance corridor, Junhaeng Lee, Streami CEO, told Brave New Coin that the company is already working on other corridors with licensed partners.
“At the moment we are only handling the volume ‘out of’ Shinhan Bank.  We plan to expand into the ‘inbound’ ASAP but it will take some time given the bank pace in system integration & compliance approvals”, Lee said.
According to BNC, until cryptocurrency transactions become fully legal in the country, Streami will transfer money to one of the bitcoin exchanges in Hong Kong, which will forward bitcoins to a participating Chinese bitcoin exchange that converts it to local currency for the recipient.
“We are not dependent on one or two exchanges. We are using many regulated exchange for on-ramping”, Lee added.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
I agreed totally! I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized that all along my parents had done a great sacrifice to buy things for us, we were poor, and I had not fully appreciative, that I vowed to myself, that if someday I had children I would tell them that God enables parents work, providing them means to buy to their children what they need! But later I found out other sad things in the world, children without parents, children with parents that do not care, children with parents too poor for a gift... We do not live in a perfect world...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says - EconoTimes
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close below 14.01 targets 14.70 - EconoTimes
New Finger Camera Tech Helps Blind People Read Printed Words
Princess Leia Memory Wave Helps The Brain Better Store Memory
Terrorism And AI Mix Seems Inevitable, Spells Disaster
Biological vs chronological age: how old are you really?
Watch: Virtual Reality Training For Police To Help Reduce Shootings
IBM's Watson would do a better job at being a bank teller than most current staff
Why batteries have started catching fire so often
AI Should Get Credit For Its Inventions Law Expert Says
Elon Musk: Advanced Artificial Intelligence Could Destroy The Internet
DIY networking: the path to a more democratic internet
Samsung Banking On Foldable Phone Revolution, Patent Published
Market-moving news and views, 24 hours a day >
476m U.S.-BASED SMALL-CAP VALUE FUNDS TAKE IN $591 MLN; 2ND-LARGEST INFLOWS ON RECORD -LIPPER
476m U.S.-BASED ENERGY SECTOR FUNDS POST $403 MLN OUTFLOWS; LARGEST WITHDRAWALS SINCE SEPTEMBER -LIPPER
477m MOODY'S - NEGATIVE OUTLOOK ON SOUTH AFRICA'S BAA2 GOVT BOND RATING REFLECTS RISKS RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS
477m MOODY'S - SOUTH AFRICA'S NEGATIVE OUTLOOK RECOGNIZES DOWNSIDE RISKS WITH POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, LOW BUSINESS CONFIDENCE, CHALLENGING EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
477m MOODY'S ON SOUTH AFRICA - DELAYS TO GROWTH, FASTER-THAN-PROJECTED RISE IN INTEREST RATES AMONG RISKS TO STABILIZATION OF DEBT-TO-GDP RATIO BY 2018/19
Tech City UK to deliver HM Treasury's fintech measures
UK Q3 GDP shows high resilience post-Brexit, Q4 could see positive surprise
What can obesity control learn from tobacco control's success?
US Election Series: Jill Stein raises $4.5 million to challenge election outcome
Study Says Practice Tests Help Maintain Memory Condition During Exams
FxWirePro: GBP/USD faces strong resistance at 1.2530, good to sell on rallies
FxWirePro:USD/CHF forms Bearish Bat pattern, good to sell on rallies
Indian economy to expand below 7 pct this year, further upside in USD/INR likely
How much impact can OPEC deal have on oil prices?
GBP/USD likely to be vulnerable to significant bouts of volatility over coming year, says Lloyds Bank
©EconoTimes 2016. All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
Hey guest, welcome to EconoTimes! Sign up and become a member.
I agreed totally!  I was 12 years old when I found out there was no Santa, I felt such a pain, because I then realized...
Telling Kids Santa Claus Exists Is Irresponsible And Dangerous, Study Says...
I think you meant to write 13.70 in the title...?
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR rejects key resistance at 14.20 mark, sustained close...
Vdice is neither provably fair or decentralised.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1646783.ms...more
When Blockchain and Decentralization Disrupt Gambling - EconoTimes
Bitfinex spokesman resigns due to ‘insane conspiracy theories’ - Econo...
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR remains well supported below 14.50 mark, sustained close...
a) The leverage ratio should not be compared with US banks as US banks are alllowed to shift...more
Deutsche Bank turmoil shows risks of weakening bank capital standards -...
Stacey Epperson at Next Step said it well, "A home is a home." So the survey response is no surprise.
MHI/YouGov Survey Finds Americans’ Joys, Anxieties About Thanksgiving Are...
11.9 trillion in the face value of open positions has priced in 1.4125% in rate hikes through December 2020, (4 after...more
December US Fed Interest Rate Hike – First of Many? - EconoTimes
You do know his character's name is Steve, don't you? ;)
‘Hawaii Five-O’ Season 7, Episode 9 Spoilers: "Two Days in November" –...
Thank you very much for these daily articles on the USD/ZAR pair!
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR breaks key support at 14.20 mark, good to sell on rallies...
I don't think BTC/EUR ever faces any resistance. Rather, it just follows what BTC/USD and EUR/USD are doing, and...more
BTC/EUR faces strong resistance around 715, break above targets 740 - ...
In July of 2016. it was discovered that I got type 2 diabetes, By the end of the July month. I was given a prescription...more
How can we prevent type 2 diabetes in children? - EconoTimes
A lot of great Bitcoin-exclusive deals on Black Friday. Want to purchase cheap with BTC? Follow the article.
Bitcoin and blockchain investment activity drops in Q3 2016 - EconoTim...
"Although ten countries became EU member states in 2004, attention focused on the “A8 countries” that had been part...more
The huge political cost of Blair's decision to allow Eastern European migrants...
By the way, here is another interesting news: QIWI, one of the most popular payment services providers in Eastern...more
MAS and R3 partner to carry out blockchain-based inter-bank payments -...
I think the whole demonitization scheme is to protect the banks from collapse. Too many bad loans to the largest...more
India likely to witness a weak Q4 on adverse demonetization effects, says...
"   sell on rallies around 136.50 with SL around 135.40 for the  TP of  138/138.80  "
Thank you once again for these daily articles - you have been spot on this week!(-:
FxWirePro: USD/ZAR hits fresh 2-month high at 14.56, faces strong resistance...