First Ever Blockchain Application Released In The Mena Region - Press Release
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
First Ever Blockchain Application Released In The Mena Region
Dubai Internet City, October 16th 2016 - What Shareholder attending an AGM has never wondered if his vote(s) were actually counted? How could he verify that his votes were even cast? How does his voting remain anonymous throughout the entire process? How are his votes secured during the audit supposedly performed in the background? How can he view the results?
While everyone else is announcing what they will do with their adoption / implementation of Blockchain Distributed Ledger Technology; Total Technologies and Solutions FZ-LLC (‘TTS’) has done it, i.e. released the FIRST Blockchain Application in the MENA region. The Blockchain has the ability to create a secure immutable record (of any type of information); resulting in no central point where that information can be corrupted.
Exit paper ballots and manual (mistake-riddled) processes – enter TTS-eVote™ - a Blockchain application that utilizes the technologies of the Internet, Smart Phones, and real-time Bio-metric Identity Verification (provide by Emirates Identity Authority) to provide a ‘bullet-proof’ eVoting Management Solution.
The old paper-based way of Shareholding / Proxy voting, for candidates and resolutions at an AGM/EGM venue, has been replaced with the use of the Shareholder’s / Proxy’s Smartphone; to register at the meeting site. Also, the new eVoting process enables ‘on-site’ as well as ‘remote voting’ from home or office anywhere in the world (where a Smartphone can be used). If Smartphone use is not available, the Shareholder can connect over the Internet – register and attend the meeting – assign a proxy or vote himself during the meeting.
The eight (8) Exchanges, across the sic (6) Gulf Cooperative Council (‘GCC’) countries will be given the opportunity to implement TTS-eVote™ as part of their AGM /EGM meeting management services to their listed companies.
Cecil O’Brien Owens, Chairman and CEO says “the TTS-eVote™ processes are tightly integrated (in real-time) with the Emirates Identity Authority (which has issued Smart Identity Cards to all residents) for Shareholder use when registering at the venue. The Shareholder places his card in the reader for instant verification that the Card is authentic and then places his finger on the pad and is instantly validated as the person using the Card. The Shareholder is asked to enter his mobile number and immediately receives an SMS with a ‘pin number’ and a ‘site access URL’ for meeting details / voting for candidates / resolutions (once voting is enabled during the meeting).”
Cecil goes on to say “Other features of using a Smartphone or Tablet / Laptop to vote, is that the Shareholder can view graphical representations of candidates or resolutions for which he has cast his vote(s). He can also see a graph of the Quorum results and the status of his votes as registered on the Blockchain; all while remaining anonymous!”
“TTS-eVote™ is the first of many Blockchain Applications TTS will be developing across various industry sectors - powered by TTS-eChain™ (TTS’ Blockchain Platform Network for Business).
Total Technologies and Solutions FZ-LLC is a Primary Software House with market leading automated management applications in the Banking and Financial Market sectors. TTS’ automation of the management of the IPO and Tradable Rights subscription collection processes have all but eliminated the use of paper during an Offer Period.
Be sure to stop by the eGovernment Pavilion at GITEX this week; to view a demo of ADX-eVote™
The publication of a press release on this page should not be viewed as an endorsement by CoinDesk. Customers should do their own research before investing funds in any company.
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact