Hillary Clinton’s campaign thinks Bitcoin is too “libertarian” – Rare
Hillary Clinton’s campaign thinks Bitcoin is too “libertarian”
Rand Paul and Rick Perry embraced the digital currency Bitcoin during their presidential campaigns. So has Libertarian Gary Johnson.
Might the Democrats want to get in on this new fundraising avenue?
That’s exactly what Stan Stalnaker—a founder of the digital currency “Ven”—asked Hillary Clinton campaign manager John Podesta in an email last year as revealed on Tuesday by WikiLeaks.
Related: Hillary Clinton thought Saudi Arabia was funding ISIS—and that’s not even the worst of it
“As we discussed, Bitcoin is being used on the Republican side and could be a useful tool, but we think Ven is a better choice for your campaign due to its environmental benefits, identity metrics and closed loop status,” Stalnaker wrote in a May 13, 2015 email to Podesta. The two had met prior at a Clinton fundraiser.
Podesta forwarded the email to campaign tech aide Teddy Goff, adding, “I don’t send all the crazy ideas I hear about at fundraisers your way, but this seems interesting and legit.”
“Essentially digital currency with a green angle as opposed to bitcoin’s libertarian Ayn Rand schtick,” Podesta wrote of Stalnker’s proposal that the campaign use Ven as an alternative.
“Would you get some members of your team to meet with Stan when he’s in NYC later this month to see if it’s worth a real conversation?” Podesta asked. “Apologies for the slow reply – yes, of course, feel free to introduce and we will set up a meeting, “Goff replied three days later.
The Real Reason We Don't Hear About Paris Hilton Anymore
A month prior to this exchange, it was reported that Clinton would not be accepting Bitcoin.
Related: Rand Paul is the first presidential candidate to accept Bitcoin
In June 2015, Clinton announced her support for Blockchain, the technology that makes Bitcoin possible.
Last year, Sen. Rand Paul became the first major party presidential candidate to accept Bitcoin.
Disclosure: I co-authored Senator Rand Paul’s 2011 book “The Tea Party Goes to Washington.”
For a second year, Rare is “going yellow” during the month of November in support of American veterans. To Rare, yellow reminds us of the courage and valor of those who have fought for our freedom. By transforming our look this month, and through the stories we tell during this time, we hope to draw more attention to the causes close to and affecting veterans of the United States Armed Forces.
This year, we are joining forces with The Journey Home Project, a nonprofit that benefits American veterans as they transition to civilian life.
Learn more about how you can support American veterans and make a donation at on.rare.us/RareGoesYellow. Join the conversation this month at #rarecares.
Megyn Kelly Describes How Roger Ailes Harassed Her: It's Nasty
For those of you who predicted a Trump TV network after the election
Sarah Silverman Compares ‘The Great Depression’ To Trump Presidency, Then Vet. SCHOOLS Her!
Concerns Grow As Jill Stein Is Tinkering With The Fine Print Of Her Recount Fundraiser
‘Hamilton’ Star Who Lectured Mike Pence Has Own History of Sexism
© 2013 - 2016 COX MEDIA GROUP | FANS 1ST MEDIA | POWERED BY WORDPRESS.COM VIP
CONTACT US WHAT IS RARE? PRIVACY POLICY VISITOR AGREEMENT
Get 6 Rare trending stories that inspire & inform you every day, in just one tap!