Virtual Reality Capabilities Should Not Be Overlooked In Bitcoin Commerce
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Virtual Reality Capabilities Should Not Be Overlooked In Bitcoin Commerce
A recent survey shows how almost six in ten shoppers are willing to visit stores kitted out with VR capabilities.
Consumers are showing an increased appetite for new technologies and payment options. One of the newest trends revolves around the usage of VR technology. By using this innovative concept, shoppers can get a better idea of the products they seek to purchase online. Virtual reality can make an impact on Bitcoin shopping as well, by the look of things.
Shopping has taken on a very different meaning compared to just a few years ago. Although consumers still tend to splurge a lot of money on goods and services, there is a growing need for new technology. With e-commerce in the lift all over the world, customers want to get a better overview of what they are looking to purchase. Virtual reality can play a significant role in this process over the coming years.
Mainly Britons seem keen on exploring what VR has to offer for their shopping experience. Although there is no replacement for viewing items in person, VR is a close match to what customers expect. The technology makes it possible to view items from all sides, and even get a sense of how it would look in their home. Certain goods are more susceptible to VR shopping than others, though.
A recent survey shows how almost six in ten shoppers are willing to visit stores kitted out with VR capabilities. Augmented reality is also a very promising technology in this regard, although it seems limited to clothing and accessories shopping for now. Then again, these are still the very early days of both technologies, and there is a lot of potential waiting to be explored.
Barclays Head of Retail and Wholesale Ian Gilmartin stated:
“The conclusion from our research is that the key to success for many retailers is to offer a balanced high street and online offering, taking advantage of technological innovation in store to attract shoppers through their doors.”
Together with virtual reality options, consumers are shifting towards new payment technologies. Contactless and mobile payments have been touted as ‘game changers”, despite relatively low adoption rates. Merging innovative technologies with disruptive payment solutions creates an exciting future for online and offline commerce.
More and more consumers all over the world are starting to see the value of shopping with Bitcoin as well. For now, there is no correlation between cryptocurrency payments and virtual reality. However, the technology lends itself to giving users a detailed overview of what they can purchase with Bitcoin at any given time. Other options can be explored over time as well, as there is plenty of potential where virtual reality is concerned.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.