Swiss railway ticket machines to sell Bitcoin digital currency - BBC News
Cuba's former leader Fidel Castro has died aged 90, state TV announces
Swiss railway ticket machines to sell Bitcoin digital currency
Swiss travellers will be able to swap their francs for Bitcoins at railway ticket machines from 11 November
Switzerland's national rail service (SBB) plans to start selling the digital currency Bitcoin at stations next month.
From 11 November, customers will be able to trade Swiss francs for Bitcoins using ticket machines.
They will not be able to buy tickets with the web-based currency, though.
The SBB said it had been testing customer demand for Bitcoin across the country, and had decided to launch a two-year pilot project.
The BBC's Rory Cellan Jones explains how Bitcoin works
To buy Bitcoins, would-be purchasers will have to give a mobile phone number for identification.
Transactions will be capped at 500 Swiss Francs (£415 / $500) each. One Bitcoin currently equals around 708.64 Swiss Francs, but it is possible to buy fractions of the currency.
Swiss financial services company SweePay is providing the conversion service.
"There have been few possibilities to obtain Bitcoins in Switzerland until now," SBB said. "With its 1,000-plus ticket machines, SBB operates a dense, around-the-clock distribution network that's suited for more than just ticket sales."
The ticket machine system may prove popular with people who have struggled to buy Bitcoins through their bank accounts, as many have reported high fees for international transactions and a delay before their funds arrive.
Bitcoin - the world's first digital currency - has drawn interest as a way to move money around rapidly, without fees or bank involvement. Transfers are handled directly between users on the internet.
Back in July, the Swiss town of Zug launched a six-month scheme letting residents pay for public services using Bitcoin. While some called the trial innovative, others raised fears that the currency was not secure.
Swiss beat UK's BT to next-gen G.fast broadband
London has been plunged into darkness by a power cut
Illegal 4x4 drivers 'trash' beauty spot on the Mendips
Trump's turnabout from 'lock her up' to no prosecution
Autumn Statement 2016: Millennials message to the chancellor
Donald Trump calls for unity in Thanksgiving holiday address
Trump transition: Will General 'Mad Dog' Mattis lead Pentagon?
A fairy tale castle with a dark secret
How did Stephen Port get away with four murders?
Why people have 'uncombable' hair, and more nuggets
Life in the tourist town no-one can reach
Why Zimbabweans no longer have enough water to shower
The young Australian who became a top IS recruiter
Obama had Beyonce, who will perform for his successor?
Viewpoint: Changing the world is more important than changing nappies
In pictures: Iraqi troops push deeper into Mosul
A Peruvian Classic: 5 Cevicherías You Should Try in Lima.
MLB Calls in a Pinch Hitter to Improve its Defense
Ranking the 50 Most Unreliable QBs of All Time
25 Names Nobody Wants to Name Their Child…
Free consultation with the experts. Find out all the benefits here.
£50k+ Savings? Try A Free Review To Show You The Best Interest Rates!
Sé tu propio jefe, establece tu horario y maneja cuando quieras
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.