Bitcurex Exchange Shuts Down Unexpectedly And Announces Restructuring
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcurex Exchange Shuts Down Unexpectedly And Announces Restructuring
While some Bitcoin community members see this as a “curtain call” for Bitcurex, that doesn't seem to be the case. It is true not alerting platform users is no proper way of conducting business in the financial sector.
Whenever a Bitcoin exchange platform shuts down, it is never a pleasant feeling. Unfortunately, not all of these companies have the financial means to sustain their operations. For Bitcurex, it appears a restructuring is in order, as they posted an official statement explaining the situation.  Apparently, a new investor has been found, and changes need to be made.
Although the name Bitcurex may not ring a bell for most cryptocurrency enthusiasts, the platform was somewhat popular in Central Europe. Trading volumes were also relatively low compared to other companies, but Bitcurex has a loyal customer base. Now that the platform will shut down temporarily, it is time to look towards the future.
The bigger question, however, is what will happen to customer funds. The official announcement makes a mention of how there will be a network infrastructure upgrade, as well as other software updates. More importantly, a security audit of the exchange platform will be conducted, which is a positive sign.
Thankfully, users can withdraw their funds, after filling in a form on the website. Withdrawals will be enabled from October 26th onwards. The official relaunch of Bitcurex is scheduled to take place on November 30th, which is a few weeks from now.
While some Bitcoin community members see this as a “curtain call” for Bitcurex, that doesn’t seem to be the case. It is true not alerting platform users is no proper way of conducting business in the financial sector. There will be a lot of panic over this relaunch, and the support staff will receive its fair share of hostile emails as well.
Locking users out of their funds is a scenario that should never take place, to begin with. Users who store Bitcoin or fiat currency in a wallet outside of their control are not doing it right. Although this news does not indicate anything malicious, other exchanges have disappeared with user funds overnight. Always move money to a wallet address you alone have the private key to.
Assuming the message is true, it is positive to see Bitcurex find a new investor. More importantly, the fact that users can withdraw funds is a big plus. However, only time will tell how this situation will play out. It is rather unusual for any exchange to use such drastic measures to announce a restructuring.
JP is working hard to bring more credibility to the Bitcoin and blockchain news industry. Outside of being Europe Editor at Newsbtc, JP is also an active writer for the website, and does not shy away from letting his opinion be heard. View all posts by JP Buntinx
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.