MasterCard's Bitcoin Efforts Should Pay Off for Investors - TheStreet
MasterCard's Bitcoin Efforts Should Pay Off for Investors
The credit card giant is making an aggressive push into Bitcoin, presenting a great investment opportunity if you act now.
Chiradeep BasuMallick Follow Nov 9, 2016 7:54 AM EST
Get TheStreet Quant Ratings' exclusive 5-page report for (MA) - FREE.
MasterCard (MA) , which is the second largest credit card payment network, is looking ahead as it dives deeper into Blockchain technology that enables sending money via Bitcoins.
The company's bigger rival Visa also is making moves into Blockchain, a core cyber security technology in financial services that's used by the Bitcoin network.
Blockchain technology could cut costs, speed up settlement timelines and reduce credit risk in the trillion-dollar payments space. MasterCard was roughly flat in Tuesday trading. 
The sheer magnitude of the growth potential is staggering: an expected $300 trillion in transactions travel through global correspondent banking networks every year, bringing $150 billion to $200 billion in bank revenues. Blockchain could remove many intermediaries in this blueprint and drive gains exponentially.
SMALL INVESTMENT, BIG POTENTIAL. TheStreet's Stocks Under $10 has identified a handful of stocks with serious upside potential. See them FREE for 14-days.
Not to be vanquished by Visa, MasterCard is clearly pushing ahead with its distributed ledger technology. The company has added three Blockchain APIs (commands and protocols) to its developer site. In beginner's terms, a Blockchain is akin to a shared digital database permitting transactions to be recorded and verified electronically over a grid of computers. Importantly, this can be managed without the need of a ledger.
MasterCard's "open" network decision puts the spotlight on developers beyond banks and retailers, which are now free to enter a core blockchain API, smart contracts API and fast pay network API.
This could simplify and consolidate what MasterCard wants in the peer-to-peer, peer-to-machine and business-to-business payments space.
These strategic movements by MasterCard could initiate a wave of positive expansions and developments:
External/outside developers can accelerate the speed of Blockchain outcomes. Also, MasterCard's decision to make the network open underlines how some of the largest financial services enterprises are gradually embracing a change in perspective, from viewing bitcoin technology with suspicion to harnessing the superior power of cryptocurrencies' underlying innovation.
Visa's Blockchain plans include a company called Chain, which boasts of collaborators in the form of Nasdaq, Fidelity National Financial, Capital One and Citigroup and is one of the many businesses vying for a chance to support banks constructing a 'permissioned' blockchain system.
READ MORE: Alibaba's Ma Fights Fakes, but Says Human Instinct, Business Models Fuel Counterfeits
Portfolio Manager Jim Cramer and Director of Research Jack Mohr reveal their investment tactics while giving advanced notice before every trade.
Jim Cramer and 30+ Wall Street professionals provide actionable guidance ranging from technical analysis to momentum trading and fundamental stock picking. Every trading day, Real Money offers a wealth of insight, analysis and strategies for all styles of investing.
All of Real Money, plus 15 more of Wall Street's sharpest minds delivering actionable trading ideas, a comprehensive look at the market, and fundamental/technical analysis.
Kass, Cramer and 15 other Wall Street Pros
David Peltier uncovers low dollar stocks with serious upside potential that are flying under Wall Street’s radar.
Access the tool that DOMINATES the Russell 2000 and the S&P 500.
Complete access to our ratings database of over 4,300 stocks
"Top of the Class" list of the best stocks in every sector and sub-industry
Chris Versace and Lenore Elle Hawkings, using sophisticated stock screening and fundamental research, identify high potential growth small and mid-cap stocks.
IF YOU LIKED THIS ARTICLE YOU MIGHT LIKE
5 Rocket Stocks to Buy for Turkey Day Gains
These stocks are showing off short-term gain catalysts and longer-term growth potential.
Jonas Elmerraji Nov 21, 2016 6:00 AM EST
Cramer shares his views on looking at oil now that the election is over. Starbucks, Kellogg and PepsiCo are among the stocks discussed.
Jim Cramer Nov 14, 2016 1:00 AM EST
After the election passes we are going to talk about companies again -- and these have done well.
Jim Cramer Nov 7, 2016 4:03 PM EST
You need to LOG IN to edit your watchlist.
10 Top-Grossing Thanksgiving Weekend Movies of All Time
Apple Continues to Underperform; the Market Is Resistant: Best of Kass
15 Haunting Photos From Kmart's Final Thanksgiving Day Opening
Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend-Paying Stocks for 2016
10 Highest-Paying Jobs in 2016 If All You Care About Is Money
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
Mad Money host Jim Cramer explains his quarterly market outlook!
Check out our exclusive monthly report containing the 5 top-rated stocks by TheStreet Quant Ratings!
Discover the critical steps Jim Cramer uses to be a more successful investor!
Action Alerts PLUS is a registered trademark of TheStreet, Inc.