Bitcoin accepted by Europe's largest gift card marketplace
Bitcoin now accepted by Europe's largest gift card marketplace
Zeek allows Bitcoin users to shop with John Lewis, Debenhams, Sainsbury's and Morrisons.
Zeek, Europe's largest gift card marketplace, is now accepting Bitcoin payment, making high street and supermarket purchases using the digital currency possible for thousands of UK consumers.
Using the platform, which enables consumers to buy and sell gift cards at discounted rates, Bitcoin users can shop with major high street retailers such as John Lewis or Debenhams, supermarkets such as Sainsbury's and Morrisons, and household name restaurants such as Nando's and Pizza Express.
Bitcoin price surges past $650 on back of Chinese mining conference
NXT's Ardor token distribution uses 'snapshot' of existing value in the network
While Bitcoin adoption has grown steadily online, adoption for retail transactions has been limited. However, today's announcement means hundreds of outlets that previously did not accept the digital currency are now within reach of bitcoin users, said a statement.
Daniel Zelkind, co-founder of Zeek said: "The UK government has expressed support for digital currencies, but it's still difficult to pay for everyday items. Zeek is thrilled to be bringing Bitcoin to the high street, letting consumers spend on everything from pizza to a PS4."
BitPay's chief commercial officer Sonny Singh also commented: "Bitcoin is the perfect solution for gift card marketplaces like Zeek. Bitcoin users need access to their favourite brands, and we're excited to be working with Zeek to bring more shopping opportunities to bitcoiners in the UK."
Stay up to date with our daily newsletter
Gianfranco Zola: Chelsea can win the Premier League
Crewe Alexandra and Penn State: Why were paedophiles allowed to prey on the young?
IBT Media to host AI and Data Science in Capital Markets event
The Artificial Intelligence and Data Science in Capital Markets event...
UK economy grows as expected in three months after Brexit vote
ONS figures show UK economy grew 0.5% quarter-on-quarter in the three...
Business leaders urge Theresa May to abandon corporate reforms
Corporate and finance chiefs say PM's plans to shake up boardrooms...
© Copyright 2016 IBTimes Co., Ltd. All Rights Reserved.