Brave new Bitcoin for Tullett Prebon » Banking Technology
Websites are now required by law to gain your consent before applying cookies. We use cookies to improve your browsing experience. Parts of the website may not work as expected without them. By closing or ignoring this message, you are consenting to our use of cookies. Read Our Cookie Policy
Home » Format » News » Brave new Bitcoin for Tullett Prebon
Tullett Prebon Information (TPI), a provider of real-time price information from the global OTC financial and commodity markets, has signed a deal with Brave New Coin (BNC) to distribute its digital currency data.
TPI says this is the “first time such a comprehensive view of the entire digital currency landscape has been made available to financial markets”. The data provides pricing from more than 50 digital currencies – including Bitcoin – as well as traded rates against a variety of traditional currencies.
Andrew Reeve, head of Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa at Tullett Prebon Information, says it is “starting to see more acceptance of crypto-currencies, with companies such as Microsoft and Amazon accepting them as payment and we know our customers want to see a consolidated view of the market”.
The agreement allows TPI to distribute BNC’s consolidated exchange feed, including the Bitcoin Liquid Index (BLX), to their customer base. TPI says this represents the bulk of the exchange traded liquidity for digital instruments, at a time when daily volumes for the entire digital currency marketplace frequently top $500 million.
TPI is a wholly owned subsidiary of inter-dealer money broker Tullett Prebon.
The latter has partnered with GMEX Group to develop a hybrid voice and electronic trading platform for FX Options; and opened a new tech centre in Belfast, Northern Ireland, to boost innovation and increase its IT capacity.
Tags; Brave New Coin, distributed ledger, DLT, FinTech, Tullett Prebon, Blockchain/Bitcoin, News, Partnerships
UK’s Financial Conduct Authority calls for regulatory sandbox applicants
The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is calling for the second group of applicants to its regulatory sandbox. As Banking Technology reported last year, the sandbox allows businesses to test out new products and services without “incurring the normal regulatory consequences”. The move is part of the FCA’s Project Innovate, which aims to boost competition […]
Tags; FCA, Financial Conduct Authority, FinTech, Financial Services, Innovation, News, Regulations, UK
Objectway Conference: Do or die in wealth management’s digital drive
The wealth management industry needs to shake off its “cottage industry” mentality of the past and realise that it is “do or die” in the push to digital. This was one of the key messages from yesterday’s (24 November) Objectway International Customer Conference in Amsterdam – a one-day event of presentations and insight from the […]
Tags; Aite, eXimius, FinTech, Objectway, Quasar, Europe, News, Wealth Management
Top fintech stories this week – 25 November 2016
Catch up on Banking Technology’s top five fintech stories of the week – all in one place!
Tags; Backbase, FinTech, fundinfo, Metro Bank, Morgan Stanley, National Bank of Australia, R3, Temenos, Vancity, Banking Tech, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Core banking, Digital Banking, Innovation, Mobile, News, Payments, Wealth Management
Let’s put the fun in funding by keeping it mercifully brief. Money seekers are PayKey, Euklid and Flender.
Tags; Euklid, FinTech, Flender, p2p, PayKey, Acquisitions, Artificial intelligence, Banking Tech, Blockchain/Bitcoin, Crowdfunding, Digital Banking, Funding, Innovation, Mobile, News, Payments, Start-ups
Receive FREE Banking Technology news alerts straight to your inbox Sign me up
It’s infographics time! A great compilation of fintech companies, showing how we’ve gone from graph paper to personal data algorithms – and everything in between.
Tags; Choice Loans, FinTech, infographics, Banking Tech, Digital Banking, Features, Innovation, Mobile, News, Payments, Software-as-a-Service, Start-ups
Move over, London and Berlin, Singapore’s fintech ecosystem is surging ahead
In her new column for Banking Technology, Devie Mohan, a fintech market strategist, looks at how Singapore has created a fintech ecosystem that is a major threat to the ones in London and Berlin.
Tags; ecosystem, FinTech, MAS, Singapore, Banking Tech, Features, Innovation, Partnerships, Regulations
Digital Editions Subscribe to magazine Request a sample copy Supplements
About us Contact us Editorial calendar Advertise with us Sign up to our Daily News Digest Jobs Privacy policy Cookies Policy