First-Ever Bitcoin ATM Comes to Memphis | News Blog
New Plan Aims at Major Crime Reduct… »
POSTED BY JOSHUA CANNON ON MON, NOV 14, 2016 AT 11:51 AM
Just past the front doors of a Shell gas station on the corner of South Dudley Street and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue sits Memphis' first-ever bitcoin ATM — the first of its kind and only the third machine like it in Tennessee.
Bitcoin is a digital currency created in 2009. It provides freedoms, and limitations, such as making purchases online, even anonymously, and is decentralized, meaning no bank or government has any authority to regulate the currency. That's the short of it, but it's far more complex: you can dive deeper here, here, and here.
The machines, built by leading U.S. bitcoin ATM network Coinsource, are the company's answer to naturalizing the buying and selling of the electronic currency. Located at 967 Linden Avenue, Memphis' lone ATM joins 60 other machines spread across seven other states including California and New York. Coinsource has installed bitcoin ATM's at a rate of 1.2 machines per week since the beginning of 2016.
"Many thousands of Americans have begun to realize that bitcoin is becoming a stable payment option and a lucrative form of investment as well." — Coinsource CEO and Co-Founder Sheffield Clark
“The demand for bitcoin ATM's has never been higher than it is today," said Coinsource CEO and Co-Founder Sheffield Clark. "Our reach in the South is growing. Many thousands of Americans have begun to realize that bitcoin is becoming a stable payment option and a lucrative form of investment as well"
Still scratching your head? Here's a primer on how to purchase bitcoin from a Coinsource ATM:
"KKK More American than Obama" — Deputy Director of Finance for Shelby County Corrections.
Grizzlies 102, Jazz 96: Finally, a Road Win
"Bitcoin" A brilliant piece of marketing. Much more appealing than, "A paper bag full of shite."
Posted by Memphomania on 11/15/2016 at 2:32 PM
I like my money in throwable form so the peasants can scramble after it whilst I drink my fine wine.
Posted by Smitty1961 on 11/15/2016 at 4:41 PM
There is probably no better description of a vehicle to watch your money be blown to bits. Amazing how people have faith in a system just because geeks create it, while remaining anonymous. Forgot or ignore all the rules of banking and then ask the government to help you when you lose your money. The minute you tell me that the creators must remain anonymous that blows my confidence to bits to trust a system beyond a few bits of conversion.
Posted by 1Memphomaniac on 11/16/2016 at 7:42 AM
See, who needs government! I've been exchanging money in this neighborhood for years.
Posted by Dayn Rand on 11/16/2016 at 8:07 AM
The currency speculator's wet dream made even more convenient. Actually, it's a security, and a volatile one, not currency.
Posted by Packrat on 11/16/2016 at 9:40 AM
SURJ Plans Protest, Boycott of Trump-Related Businesses on Black Friday (News Blog)
Board Set to Hear Appeals on TVA Wells (News Blog)
Memphis Zoo Welcomes Baby Primate, Cue the "Aaaaws"
Thirty-seven years ago this week, Memphis became a city in fear. In the late summer of 1969, a cold-blooded killer stalked the streets, and over a period of 28 days, police made one grisly discovery after another. In the end, the slayer was captured after a wild chase by a posse of ordinary citizens. After his arrest, George Howard Putt told reporters, “I’d do it all again.” The murder spree began on the afternoon of August 14, 1969 ...
New Traffic Signal First Sign of 'Midtown Market' Project
'Not My President:' Anti-Trump Protesters March From Overton Park to Cooper-Young Gazebo
HOME | NEWS | POLITICS | OPINION | WE RECOMMEND | MUSIC | FILM | ART | THEATER | FOOD | BOOKS | SPORTS | REAL ESTATE | CLASSIFIEDS | FLYER SHOP | PRIVACY POLICY AND TERMS OF USE | INFO | LOCAL ADVERTISING | SUBMIT AN EVENT | CONTACT US | NATIONAL ADVERTISING
460 Tennessee Street, 2nd Floor | Memphis, TN 38103
Visit our other sites: Memphis Magazine | Memphis Parent | Inside Memphis Business