How to Deposit Your Cryptocurrency at an Online Casino - CryptoCoinsNews
How to Deposit Your Cryptocurrency at an Online Casino
Unlike years back, Bitcoins are now accepted as a payment method in many quality online casinos. And not only can you find them with well-established operators, but you can also find new Bitcoin-only casinos where you can play safe, anonymous, and without the fees that other banking methods incur.
But despite the availability and benefits of Bitcoin casinos, many people still stick to traditional payment methods just because they don’t quite understand how the whole transaction process works.
So, if you’re one of those people and you need some help getting through the basics, keep reading for our simplified guide on how to deposit effortlessly in a Bitcoin casino.
First and foremost, you will need a Bitcoin wallet to be able to receive and send payments. Just like digital payment services like Paypal or Payoneer, a Bitcoin wallet is your private bank account which you can use for transactions, the only difference being that you will not have to disclose your information.
There are two types of wallets that you can use: web-based wallet service and desktop wallets. Web wallets are the more convenient option as they are simpler to use, while a desktop wallet is actually software that you install on your computer. There are hundreds of wallet services online and the one you choose will mostly depend on your personal preference.
Desktop wallets are normally considered more secure, as they don’t work through a third-party online software, but this doesn’t always have to be the case. That’s why it’s always good to take some precautions to secure your wallet.
Once you create your wallet, you will be given your own Bitcoin address that you can buy and sell with. To get your Bitcoins, you will need to use any of the following options:
Your wallet – You should be able to buy Bitcoins directly through your wallet;
Bitcoin exchanges – Exchange services like BTC China or Bitstamp where you can trade a number of currencies for Bitcoins/other digital currencies and vice versa.
Over the counter – Buying Bitcoins through face to face transactions with other users upon a pre-agreed price. There are a number of sites that can help you find traders in your area.  
Bitcoin ATMs – If you live in a city with a Bitcoin ATM, you can use your credit card to load Bitcoins into your wallet.  
The process of depositing Bitcoins in an online casino is simple and easy to understand and it will be uniform in almost every casino that you visit. In short, if you want to make a deposit in BTC, all you have to do is follow these steps:
Sign in to your account and find the cashier/deposit menu.
Select Bitcoins as you currency and copy the casino’s Bitcoin address.
Open your wallet and find the “send money” menu to complete the transaction (with smartphones, all you have to do is click the Bitcoin address and your phone will automatically suggest opening it with your wallet app).
Fill in the amount you want to send and the casino’s address very carefully.  
Choose whether you need a confirmation or not.
Siemens Teams Up with LO3 Energy on Blockchain Microgrid
How Bitcoin Could Have Saved UK Households $1.5 Trillion
UFOMiners Begins A New Era For Cryptocoin Mining
Belize Financial Regulator Warns Against Fraudulent Bitcoin Investment Company
PreviousBlockchain.info CEO: “Attackers Gained Access to our Accounts”14/10/2016
增达网 on Bitcoin Premium in India Reaches 20%, Price Peaks Beyond $880
增达任务网 on Centz Vows to Give You Control of Your Gift Card Money Via OpenLedger ICO at Money 2020
Romm333 on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Mike on The Bitcoin Network Breaks Down as Demand Surges
Advertised sites are not endorsed by us. They may be unsafe, untrustworthy, or illegal in your jurisdiction.