Bitcoin Price Watch; Here's What's On This Evening - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Price Watch; Here’s What’s On This Evening
Here's what we are looking at in the bitcoin price this evening.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
So that’s it for the end of the day – markets are drawing to a close out of Europe and our European session bitcoin price trading is shifting to the late US session. In this morning’s analysis, we widened things out a little bit, and put forward a pretty large range to go forward into the European morning session with. This is very much still in place – we haven’t managed to get into any trades on this range as yet (this isn’t unexpected, the wider ranges need a little bit more time to play out) but that doesn’t mean we can’t set up a narrow range and go at price with this narrow range as a secondary approach.
So, that’s what we are going to discuss now.
Before we get started, take a quick look at the chart below to get an idea of how action played out today (spoiler: range trading) and our range this evening. We’ve shifted back to our five-minute charge for this evening, and our range in focus is overlaid in green on the chart.
As the chart shows, the range we are now looking at is defined by in term support to the downside at 605 flat, and resistance to the upside at 610 flat. If price breaks below the former, we are going to look at getting in a short position with an immediate downside target of 600 flat. A stop on this one somewhere in the region of 607 looks good from a risk management perspective, and will ensure we are taken out of the trade in the event of a bias reversal.
Looking the other way, if price can break above, and close above, resistance at 610, we will get in to a long position towards 615. Again we need a stop, and 608 works well on this one.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.