Bitcoin Price Passes $750 as it Nears Five-Month High - CoinDesk
Vote Now for CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Blockchain
Bitcoin Price Passes $750 as it Nears Five-Month High
Pete Rizzo (@pete_rizzo_) | Published on November 18, 2016 at 13:25 GMT
The price of bitcoin is now trading above $750, its highest total in just under five months.
At press time, bitcoin prices were up 2% on the day's trading, and up $50 since the start of Monday's trading at 0:00 UTC.
Propelled by a sharp uptick earlier this week (in which the price spiked $30 in just one hour), the price of bitcoin is now nearing the 2016 highs it set in early June. According to data from the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (BPI), bitcoin is now trading at its highest mark since 20th June, when anticipation for bitcoin's decline in mining rewards was arguably at its peak.
In this case, however, the uptick may not be attributable to just one factor.
Bitcoin has been enjoying continually bullish sentiment among avid traders in past months, and there are increasing signs that its recent gains may have been sparked by exterior market forces.
For example, India has recently seen a ban on certain denominations of banknotes, a development that local bitcoin startups claim has bolstered business, though websites with public data (such as LocalBitcoins) indicate the effects are perhaps less clear.
At press time, the price of 1 BTC on India-based exchange Unocoin was 61,688 India rupees, or more than $900, a figure that boosts claims of strong local demand.
Other factors boosting the price could be the devaluation of China's yuan, which has suffered daily declines this week.
Also a possibility is a general warming sentiment about key technical improvements to the network, with code that could scale the bitcoin blockchain expected to roll out before the end of the year, potentially muting long-held concerns about transaction capacity.
South Korea is Debating New Bitcoin Exchange Rules
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Nov 21, 2016 at 13:00 | Stan Higgins
UBS plans to invest in blockchain as part of an expansion plan in China.
Nov 19, 2016 at 15:25 | Charles Bovaird
Bitcoin Breaches $750 But Struggles to Set New 2016 High
Bitcoin prices repeatedly breached $750 during the week through 18th November as traders responded to macroeconomic uncertainty.
Nov 17, 2016 at 13:56 | Stan Higgins
IBM China Wants to Use Blockchain to Fight Climate Change
IBM’s China division is working with a regional textile printing firm to to develop a platform for trading digital assets tied to carbon emissions.
Nov 16, 2016 at 15:00 | Pete Rizzo
Peernova Quietly Collects $4 Million for Big Data Blockchain Play
Blockchain solutions provider Peernova is quietly raising money to bring its enterprise big data product to Asia.
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
Argentina's Central Bank is Warming Up to Blockchain
Steemit's First 'Fest' Reveals the Power of Blockchain Community
Why Remittance Giant MoneyGram Won't Be First With Blockchain
Overstock Could Raise $30 Million With Blockchain Stock Offering
Over 100 Migrant Workers Test Blockchain Remittance in Thailand
Your Ultimate Cryptocurrency Mobile Wallet Rules the Crypto World through its Gigantic Innovations
Korea Exchange opens the Korea Startup Market with blockchain technology
Subscribe to our free newsletter and follow us
© CoinDesk 2016 About Press Events Editorial policy Comments policy Terms & conditions Privacy policy Jobs Advertising Newsletter Contact
Stay up-to-date on the latest blockchain news with CoinDesk’s daily newsletter.