Bitcoin tanks on report China considering crackdown - MarketWatch
BULLETIN Cuba's Fidel Castro has died at 90: reports
The bitcoin price plummeted late Thursday, erasing a week’s worth of gains, as a blistering rally ran out of steam.
A Bloomberg report that Chinese authorities are studying measures to limit transactions on China-based exchanges in an effort to stop money flowing out of the country was the catalyst for the selloff, according to Charles Hayter, founder and chief executive of Cryptocompare, a provider of cryptocurrency data and analysis.
Bitcoin US:BTCUSD  has rallied sharply in recent weeks, from $630 on Oct. 19, to a four-month high of $743 earlier Thursday. It touched a five-day low at $687 early Friday morning New York time.
The rally coincided with a sharp increase in trading volume on China-based exchanges. According to Bloomberg, Chinese authorities believe some of these investors are using bitcoin as a vehicle to illegally move money out of the country, while others might be using it simply as a hedge against the softening Chinese yuan USDCNY, +0.0332%
10 of the prettiest towns in the U.S. where you can retire reasonably well
Apple nabs obscene share of smartphone profit thanks to Samsung’s Note 7 debacle
As Card Rewards Mount, Visa and Mastercard Win Big
Tesla’s Model X is ‘fast and flawed,’ Consumer Reports says
U.S. stocks hit new records and post third straight week of gains
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
Billionaire Ron Burkle is buyer behind Bob Hope’s iconic Palm Springs mansion
Insight and analysis on a Donald Trump presidency
Melania Trump may be right: Moving in middle of school year could mess up kids
Opinion: A 12-step plan to strengthen your portfolio after Trump's victory
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
Expert financial and political views on Latin America
What makes the Isle of Man a strong and secure location for investors
By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.