India May Take to Bitcoin if Currency Note Squeeze Continues
India May Take to Bitcoin if Currency Note Squeeze Continues
The phones of Indian Bitcoin companies have been ringing non-stop ever since the Indian Government began faltering in replacing the outlawed currency notes while search queries on Google Trends have hit an all-time high.
Following Demonetization, Many Indian Men Unable to Pay Alimony, Face Prison
New Delhi (Sputnik) — India's bitcoin exchange companies have been getting frantic calls from people after the Government outlawed high value currency notes. It has also put a cap on bank deposits and exchange of old bills but has been shifting the goal posts to end long waiting times at banks and ATMs. Search queries around ‘Bitcoin’ on Google Trends have hit an all-time high.
ZebPay and Unicoin say they have turned down customers interested in investing huge amounts in the crypto-currency. But experts feel the lack of specific regulations can make Bitcoin a major facilitator of money laundering, tax avoidance and evasion, drug trafficking, blackmailing and terrorist financing.
"This arena of virtual transitions is relatively novel and largely untested. This means that just like any new technology or innovation there is a high possibility of loopholes that have not been detected yet. Most prominent of these offences which are already existent in the traditional financial world and which may extend to Bitcoin are money laundering and terrorist financing," said the research paper Bitcoins — A Global Perspective, which was published in April 2015 by Nishith Desai Associates, a global legal consultancy.
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in a warning noted "The absence of information of counterparties in such peer-to-peer anonymous/ pseudonymous systems could subject the users to unintentional breaches of anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism laws."
There is no prohibition to mining, trading and transfer of Bitcoins in India. Bitcoin does not come under the ambit of currency, legal tender or foreign exchange and the RBI hasn’t come up with guidelines on this yet, except for the warning it issued in December 2013.
India Currency Reform May Trigger Commodities Scarcity, Prices Rise
Bitcoins-While-U-Wait: Swiss Railways To Sell Crypto-Currency at Ticket Machines
Bitcoin Poses No Threat to Russia's Financial System
currency, bitcoin, The Reserve Bank of India, India
Aleppo Humanitarian Pauses Sabotaged Due to Lack of UN Initiative - Russian MoD
Russia has repeatedly introduced so-called humanitarian pauses in Syria's Aleppo, but every time they were sabotaged by lack of initiative from the United Nations representatives and actions of terrorists, the Russian Defense Ministry's spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said.
Merkel Expects 60,000 Migrants to Leave Germany Voluntarily This Year
German Chancellor Angela Merkel expects that this year around 100,000 migrants will leave Germany, over half of them voluntarily.
Japan Scrambles Jet Fighters Amid Flight of Chinese Aircraft Near Okinawa
The fighters of Japan's Air Self-Defense Forces (JASDF) have raised to the sky on Saturday after the Chinese Air Force aircraft were spotted near the Japanese island of Okinawa, local media reported Saturday.
US Corporate Media Execs Turn Into 'Fascists' Trying to Gag Alternative Outlets
US mainstream media pundits and corporate executives liked to present themselves as liberals, but they are turning into fascists in their growing efforts to suppress alternative news outlets they disapproved of in face of their own lost credibility and influence over the American public, US analysts told Sputnik.
US, South Korea Discuss Status of Forces Agreement Before Trump Inauguration
On Tuesday, government officials from Seoul and Washington met to discuss the ongoing deployment of nearly 30,000 American soldiers in South Korea as well as the changes to the arrangement that President-elect Donald Trump may seek.
UK’s ‘Snooper’s Charter’ Gives Government Access to Citizen’s Web History
A new bill presented in the UK this week, if passed into law, will compel internet providers to keep a list of websites users visit for a year and make those records available to nearly 50 government agencies upon request.
09:28Obama Administration Admits Results of Elections Reflect Popular Will
09:07Japan Scrambles Jet Fighters Amid Flight of Chinese Aircraft Near Okinawa
08:26Former Cuban President Fidel Castro Dies At Age of 90 - Reports
07:58Merkel Expects 60,000 Migrants to Leave Germany Voluntarily This Year
07:25US Corporate Media Execs Turn Into 'Fascists' Trying to Gag Alternative Outlets
Extreme Wind in Russian City Knocks People off Their Feet
Two Saudi Women Sentenced to 20 Lashes for Using These Words in WhatsApp
Serbia Getting Ready to Repel the "Invasion" of Frozen 34 Years Old Pigs from Nato Stocks