Bitcoin Price Hits 3-Month High as Chinese Yuan Weakness Fuels Buying – CoinSpeaker
Don’t Miss Deals As Bitcoin Black Friday 2016 Begins!
Goldman Sachs and Santander Leave R3 Blockchain Consortium
Bitcoin Price Leaps to $745 as Chinese Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low
CME Group Launches Bitcoin Reference Rate and Bitcoin Real Time Index
BITCOIN, CRYPTOCURRENCIES, NEWS, PRICE, STORY OF THE DAY
Bitcoin Price Hits 3-Month High as Chinese Yuan Weakness Fuels Buying
BY TATSIANA YABLONSKAYA ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25TH, 2016 6:03AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT
Bitcoin price boost coincides with yuan weakening as Chinese investors suffer from strict capital controls.
Bitcoin society is observing the cryptocurrency price boost as the yuan extended a six-year low. Bitcoin price has risen to an almost three-month high as Chinese investors turn to alternative assets to overcome a weakening yuan.
According to Bloomberg, bitcoin has soared as much as 4 percent from Friday to $655.50, the highest since July 29. Trading volume has also increased climbing to an almost seven-month high of 5.5 million bitcoin on Sunday.
The boost of bitcoin price concurs with a new wave of yuan weakness in China, which accounts for about 90 percent of trading. Chinese investors tend to take a closer look at cryptocurrencies due to capital controls that limit the amount of cash they can move abroad.
The current raise of bitcoin price demonstrates that the digital currency starts to recover from a plunge in August that was triggered by the hacking of Hong Kong-based exchange Bitfinex. Totally, $72 million USD worth of bitcoin was recently stolen from  Bitfinex exchange.
“As the yuan enters a path of depreciation, investors will consider investing in assets that can preserve value and hedge risks,” said Zhu Jiawei, Beijing-based chief operating officer at Huobi, one of the largest Chinese bitcoin exchanges.
The situation in China got worse this month as the yuan’s declines accelerated and the dollar surged amid mounting expectations for a U.S. interest-rate increase by year-end. “China has made it harder to take money overseas since August 2015’s devaluation as it sought to stem a vicious cycle where outflows fueled further depreciation. Bitcoin skyrocketed 80 percent from the end of 2015 to reach a 2 1/2-year high of $777.01 on June 17 amid faster yuan declines and expectations for a fall in bitcoin supply in July”, says Bloomberg.
As of Monday, the bitcoin price made up 4,488.6 yuan, amounting to a premium of about 2 percent compared with its dollar price. The difference is expected to become larger due to strict capital controls.  Arthur Hayes, Hong Kong-based founder of bitcoin exchange BitMEX, states that bitcoin will possibly strengthen to $1,000 by January while the yuan will fall to 7 against the greenback.
“The continued devaluation of the Chinese yuan is what’s driving traders at the margin to buy bitcoin,” Hayes said.
Some market strategists along with Yue Zhong, a China-based market strategist at FXTM, expect that the value of yuan will continue falling and in the coming months the Chinese currency will be traded at seven to the dollar, a level it hasn’t seen since 2008.
Don’t Miss Deals As Bitcoin Black Friday 2016 Begins!
Goldman Sachs and Santander Leave R3 Blockchain Consortium
Bitcoin Price Leaps to $745 as Chinese Yuan Reaches Eight-Year Low
Money 20/20: BitPay Announces Copay Bitcoin Wallet Integration Based on Intel Technologies
This Game Will Keep You Up All Night!
This game will keep you up all night!
The 20 Most Generous Billionaires In The World
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your Smartphone
We welcome comments that advance the story directly or with relevant tangential information. We try to block comments that use offensive language, all capital letters or appear to be spam, and we review comments frequently to ensure they meet our standards. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Coinspeaker Ltd.
Morgan Stanley Might Leave Blockchain Consortium R3 CEV
Online Wallet Provider iPayYou Enables Bitcoin Payment for Amazon
Siemens and U.S. Startup LO3 Energy Partners on Blockchain Microgrids
Coinbase Promises to Fight the IRS in Court Over Data on All Active US Bitcoin Traders
Stripe Unveils Radar to Detect E-Commerce Fraud Behavior
TechCrunch Launches New Series ‘Trust Disrupted: Bitcoin and the Blockchain’
Payoneer Raises $180M in Series E Funding Round to Help Businesses Move Money Across Borders
IBM to Invest $200 Million Into Watson Internet of Things A.I. Business in Germany
Copyright © 2016 STB Media Ltd. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of STB Media Ltd. is prohibited.