Bitcoin Miners in China May Have Too Much Control - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Miners in China May Have Too Much Control
How much control do Chinese miners have over bitcoin?
If you deal in bitcoin regularly, you know China has arguably become bitcoin’s biggest fan, and its influence never goes unfelt. As the yuan devalues, the price of bitcoin is currently rising beyond $640, and it looks like this is merely the beginning of an oncoming bull run. At the same time, when something like the Bitfinex attack occurs, bitcoin can find itself up to its neck in sewage.
There’s no denying China has control. The big question is, how much? In particular, how much control is held by bitcoin miners?
According to reporter Nathaniel Popper, the mining sector originally made up only a small portion of bitcoin’s modern-day arena. With time, the sector continued to grow, and further mining centers were established. While the intention behind mining was to award bitcoin fairly, Popper feels it has since become problematic:
“The design of the bitcoin software gives decision-making power to the miners. These miners around the world have a sort of voting power over the bitcoin software and what bitcoin itself looks like.”
In the words of Popper, miners form blocks and rush to provide leeway for waves of transactions in the hopes that they’ll be given access to new bitcoins for their services. Presently, those with cheap electricity and cheap software are able to get to these bitcoins first, and both things are rampantly found in China’s bitcoin sector. Should the country retain its power, bitcoin mining in countries like the U.S. could suffer. Someone may decide that bitcoin mined in America can’t belong to any Chinese blocks. The work goes unaccepted, and U.S. miners and mining services are put on hold, or even worse, out of business.
While many are showing concern, Popper promotes a society where everyone is working together, and dominance is not held by a singular party:
“This was the idea of communal wisdom. It’s not at all clear that that software being developed by volunteers all around the world is going to able to adapt quickly enough to keep up with the existing power and all the resources that they have to put into this experiment.”
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.