Bitcoin Price Watch; Taking Control Of The Volatility - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
Bitcoin Price Watch; Taking Control Of The Volatility
Here's a look at what we are focusing on in the bitcoin price this morning.
SPONSORED ARTICLE:  Tech Analysis articles are sponsored by SimpleFX - Simple as Never Before, 
SimpleFX is a robust online trading provider, offering trading with Forex CFDs on Bitcoins, Litecoins, indices, precious metals and energy. Offers and trading conditions simple and transparent. 
So that’s another day done, and it’s been a pretty good day from an intraday trading perspective. We noted this morning that we would like to see lots of movement, and while it’s always nice to see some upside momentum from a long term perspective, intraday doesn’t really necessitate a short term bias. Today’s action came to the downside, and we were able to get in to the market on a break of our predetermined support. A quick run through carried us to our target nice and easy, and we got in and out for a quick draw profit.
With any luck, we’ll see a similar degree of volatility as we head in to the close of the US session this evening, and beyond that, in to the Asian session early morning.
So, with this said, let’s take a look at what’s going on, and we we are looking to get in and out of the markets on any forward volatility. As ever, take a quick look at the chart below to get an idea of what we are focusing on. It’s a five-minute candlestick chart and it’s got today’s action illustrated as it intertwines our key levels.
So, as the chart shows, the levels in focus moving forward are in term support to the downside at 629, and in term resistance to the upside at 632. Just as with this morning, this width of range is far too tight to go at with an intrarange approach, so it’s all about breakout for now.
If price closes above in term resistance, we will get in long towards an immediate upside target of 637. A stop on the trade at 630 defines risk. Conversely, if price breaks below support, a close below this level will put us short towards 625. This one’s a little tighter, so a stop at 631 looks good.
Disclaimer: The information contained herein is not guaranteed, does not purport to be comprehensive and is strictly for information purposes only. It should not be regarded as investment/trading advice. All the information is believed to come from reliable sources. NewsBTC does not warrant the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of information in its analysis and therefore will not be liable for any loss incurred.
Samuel is a currency trader, author and contributor to a number of the leading forex market publications including Futures Magazine, FX Trader Magazine and Spreadbet Magazine. He is a an avid bitcoin enthusiast with a real interest in how cryptocurrencies are likely to affect global economics in the future. View all posts by Samuel Rae
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.
You'll can skip this Ad in 1 seconds...