Bitcoin to be sold at all SBB ticket machines in Switzerland
About us | Advertising & Editorial | Contact us
You are here: Home » Rail industry news » Bitcoin to be sold at all SBB ticket machines in Switzerland
Bitcoin to be sold at all SBB ticket machines in Switzerland
31 October 2016  •  Author: Katie Sadler, Digital Content Producer, European Railway Review
Swiss national rail operator SBB has announced the digital currency Bitcoin will soon become available to purchase at all station ticket machines as part of a two year trial.
From 11 November 2016, SBB customers will be able to exchange Swiss Francs for the digital currency Bitcoin at all station ticket machines. However, Bitcoin is currently not accepted as a method of payment to purchase tickets.
With very low transaction fees, the digital currency has gained attention as a way of moving transferring money rapidly.
SBB is providing the ticket machines as a Bitcoin distribution channel for financial services company SweePay. Transactions will be limited to 500 Swiss Francs (£415 / $500) each.
SBB Ticket machines can be used for additional services such as Bitcoin
Until now, there have been limited opportunities to purchase Bitcoin in Switzerland. According to SSB, its dense distribution network of over 1,000 ticket machines, available round the clock, is not only suitable for purchasing tickets, but also allows additional services to be obtained.
The trial will run for a period of two years.
Further information about the service can be found here.
Webinar: Multi applications & the future of transport ticketing
Progress made on UK smart ticketing roll-out for bus and rail
Introduction of energy metering, settlement and billing at SBB
Infrastructure quality – gaining a competitive advantage in the Lithuanian rail freight market
All subscriptions include online membership, giving you access to the magazine and exclusive online content...
© Russell Publishing Limited, 2010-2016. All rights reserved | Website design and development by e-Motive Media Limited | Terms and conditions of use | Privacy Policy
 Siemens Webinar: Internet of Trains – How digitisation creates new value opportunitiesWATCH NOW