GET THE LATEST GAMBLING NEWS FROM CALVIN AYRE
The price of bitcoin is on a ten-week high, thanks to increased demand in Asia amid worries over the serious devaluation of the Chinese yuan.
This week, the yuan dropped it its six-year low against the U.S. dollar at 6.72 per dollar, which, according to Reuters, is the weakest rate since September 2010. In comparison, bitcoin saw a 3 percent jump in value—breaking the $630 ceiling. This is the popular digital currency’s strongest since July.
The weakened yuan was partly attributed to the week-long holiday in China, which celebrated the Chinese Golden Week that follows China’s national day. However, this isn’t the first time that the devaluating Chinese yuan has pushed the prices of digital currencies up.
In May, the price of the digital currency surged by as much as 15 percent, which some market participants partly attributed to the devaluation of Chinese yuan. Trades involving Chinese yuan are believed to account for about 95 percent of the current bitcoin trading volume this year, according to a CoinDesk research.
The last time the yuan fell to the 6.7 mark versus the U.S. dollar was in July, and state banks intervened to remedy the situation. This time, however, analysts predict further depreciation due to China’s central bank’s decision to set a weaker guidance for the yuan. The uncertainty could prove to be a boon for virtual currencies like bitcoin, which traders have been calling a “safe haven” asset that shows its strengths as an investment vehicle “in time of macroeconomic uncertainty.”
“The Chinese central bank’s decision not to intervene in stabilizing the yuan means traders are running scared. Bitcoin is a port in the storm,” Charles Hayter, founder of digital currency website Cryptocompare, told Reuters.
A trader told the news outlet that “the market is holding a wait-and-see approach towards the central bank attitude.”
Bitcoin hit the $635.79 mark early Thursday morning, with a trade volume of $13.85 million.
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
TAGS: 500.COM, CHINA, QUFAN INTERNET TECHNOLOGY INC, SOCIAL GAMING, SPORTS LOTTERY
Chinese online sports lottery operator 500.com has taken a controlling stake in a social poker business in an attempt to diversify its currently non-existent revenue stream.
On Friday, 500.com announced that it had taken a 51% stake in Qufan Internet Technology Inc. and Shenzhen Qufan Internet Technology Co. Ltd, which collectively operate a mobile social poker platform.
500.com says the transaction, which will cost RMB 110.5m (US $16m), is subject to certain unspecified conditions. The company didn’t offer any guidance for what type of boost this acquisition might provide to 500.com’s bottom line.
The Nasdaq-listed 500.com is desperate to show investors some capacity to generate revenue, having now gone six straight quarters without a single penny from online lottery operations following Beijing’s March 2015 decision to ‘temporarily’ suspend online sales after uncovering widespread fraud by provincial lottery administrators.
Investors will likely be hoping 500.com’s latest acquisition proves more permanent that its purchase last December of Zhejiang Shangmeng Technology Limited Company, which operates the Sumpay.cn online payment processor. 500.com sold the company in May, and while it realized a tidy profit on the quick turnaround, it didn’t inspire investor confidence in 500.com’s long-term prospects.
Beijing has been typically cryptic regarding when the 20-months-and-counting ‘temporary’ online suspension might be lifted. In May, five government ministries issued a joint notice detailing steps that needed to be taken in order to ensure future online activity would be property scrutinized, but the government has yet to take any demonstrable public action toward achieving those aims.
500.com isn’t alone in eyeing social gaming as a diversification lifeline. Casino and slots operator Entertainment Gaming Asia has been promising to unveil its new ‘Pan-Asian’ social casino platform since March. Earlier this month, the company reported that it was still “testing the platform in certain markets to assess its potential as a provider to long-term earnings.’
VIEWS AND OPINIONS EXPRESSED ARE THOSE OF THE AUTHOR AND DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THOSE OF CALVINAYRE.COM
Crown Resorts hires legal team to probe liability over China arrests
Authorities shut down Asia Poker League Shanghai event
China lottery sales rise as top official faces corruption rumors
The CalvinAyre.com media group is based in Antigua in the West Indies with teams in London, Manila and Vancouver covering the global gambling industry.
Along with ensuring fair coverage of the gambling industry we highlight the great work of the Calvin Ayre Foundation.