Blockchain Taps Coinify to Offer Instantaneous Bitcoin Wallet Funding | Finance Magnates
FM HomeCryptoCurrencyInnovationBlockchain Taps Coinify to Offer Instantaneous Bitcoin Wallet Funding
Blockchain Taps Coinify to Offer Instantaneous Bitcoin Wallet Funding
Blockchain will beta test the integration with select invite-only participants, working for a future global launch.
Avi Mizrahi | Innovation (CryptoCurrency) | Monday, 14/11/2016|15:59 GMT
Blockchain, which dominates cryptocurrency wallets with over 50% market share, just announced a partnership with blockchain payment and trading service provider Coinify that will allow users to fund their wallets almost instantaneously.
“Digital currencies and peer-to-peer transaction networks have the potential to modernize a financial system that is currently failing over a third of the global population,” said Peter Smith, Blockchain’s Chief Executive Officer. “This announcement represents a giant step forward in making bitcoin, still a nascent currency, a more compelling and efficient financial solution for new users.”
The Blockchain-Coinify integration will enable wallet funding via credit and debit cards inside a single user interface. Users will also be able to purchase bitcoin directly from their bank accounts, although wallet funding through this channel will only happen as fast (or as slow) as the bank transfers themselves are able to settle.
Continued Smith: “At Blockchain, we are on a mission to build an open, accessible and fair financial future, one piece of software at a time. This partnership is a huge step toward realizing that accessibility mission. For the first time, users will not be subject to the delays, complexities, and security risks that have plagued digital currency adoption in the past. This partnership will make our wallet infinitely more user friendly and, ultimately, more accessible for the mass market.”
The partnership with Coinify will be launched first in Europe. Blockchain will beta test the integration with select invite-only participants, working user feedback into an enhanced product for full global launch.
Coinify co-founder and CEO Mark Højgaard said: “Coinify shares in Blockchain’s mission to accelerate the adoption of digital currencies by making them more easily accessible. And we are honoured to be a part of this strategic partnership to serve millions of existing and new bitcoin users. With Blockchain’s dominant position in the cryptocurrency wallet market, I believe this will be a real game changer.”
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank ... / 10 hours
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank ... / 12 hours
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst ... / 12 hours
Canadian Regulator OSC Warns Against Zurich Prime / 13 hours
Borsa İstanbul Inks MoU With Islamic Development Bank
Trump to Make Greek Banks Great Again – Piraeus Bank Chairman
CME Group Strikes New Daily Record Open Interest Amidst Shortened Trading Week
Siemens to Reform New York's Energy Market with LO3 Blockchain Microgrids
Lykke Unveils a Project Crowdsourcing/Collaboration Platform, Lykke Streams
Goldman Sachs Parts Ways with R3 Consortium to Pursue Independent Research
Finance Magnates is a global B2B provider of multi-asset trading news, research and events with special focus on electronic trading, banking, and investing.
Copyright © 2016 "Finance Magnates Ltd." All rights reserved. For more information, read our terms and conditions