Is the Bitcoin Price Moving Towards $700? - NEWSBTC
Bitcoin Price Watch; A Slow End To The Week
EY Unveils Strategy to Create Mainstream Bitcoin Traction In Switzerland
Ethereum Platform Receives a New Geth Update after Consensus Flaw
Redefining the Short Term Recruitment Industry -- ChronoBank
Bitcoin Price Watch; End Of The Week Trading
Ledger Blue Hardware Cryptocurrency Wallet Now Available For Pre-order
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – ETH/USD Downsides To Continue
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/25/2016 - Hold or Fold at Channel Support?
Fortunejack – The only Gambling Site Offering Binary Options Trading
Swift Boasts Blockchain Technology Will Not Disrupt Their Business Model
Is IRS Overstepping Boundaries by Issuing Summons to Coinbase?
Tendai Biti: "Zimbabwe Should Adopt Bitcoin As The National Currency"
Ethereum Classic Price Technical Analysis – ETC/BTC Almost Tested 0.00100BTC
Ethereum Price Technical Analysis – Can ETH/USD Break This?
Bitcoin Price Technical Analysis for 11/24/2016 - Eyes on This Triangle
The bitcoin price has undergone a healthy rise, and is hovering at around $668. Price expansions have been occurring on an incremental basis; anyone who expects bitcoin to strike the $700 mark overnight is undoubtedly expecting too much, yet it’s probably safe to say that should bitcoin continue its present route uninterrupted, it may hit such a point before the year is out.
The most common suggestion for bitcoin’s subsequent rise seems to be the continued fall of the yuan in China. As the yuan and related fiat currencies continue to fall, Chinese traders have turned to bitcoin in order to gain more control over their assets. Cryptocurrency mining in China has also increased as affordable electricity and equipment have proven relatively accessible, particularly in southern districts.
Since the fall of the country’s currency, many are looking to sustain status and ownership, and bitcoin spending is occurring on a scattered basis. Naturally, many of us want to see bitcoin continue its current course, and arguments discussing what to do next are spreading quickly. Some claim that spending bitcoin will help it rise through the ranks, while others, corporations in particular, say holding onto it (at least for the time being) will have a stronger effect.
Both strategies have proven successful in the past. Present activity in China offers suggestive proof that regular spending does indeed yield positive results. At the same time, nothing can hold value granted it doesn’t possess a little “rarity.” While the time may not have arrived yet, it can be argued that those who purchased bitcoin recently will likely stand by at some point in the near future. To an extent, bitcoin works similarly to stocks and bonds. Once you buy them, you wait around to see if their prices change, and you hold your breath until they hit a certain peak to which you say to yourself, “Hey… I think it’s time to cash out.”
And current bitcoin charts show that an “Aha!” moment like this may be closer than it appears. Recent activity shows bitcoin preparing for what appears to be a very specific (and drastic) move. Whether the bitcoin price will coil is unforeseen, and the activity witnessed may be nothing more than a corrective step, but investors are warned to keep their eyes peeled, nonetheless.
Electronic Government as a Service — eGaaS Enters Beta Testing Phase
Bitcoin’s Fastest Growing Community Issues Innovative BitConnect Coin ICO
IBM, Microsoft and Sberbank shared experience in blockchain developments. How did Blockchain & Bitcoin Conference in Moscow go?
NewsBTC is a news service that covers bitcoin news, technical analysis and forecasts for bitcoin and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening people all around the world about bitcoin and other cryprocurrencies. We cover news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various virtual currencies.